   #[1]Alcuin and Flutterby - Atom [2]Alcuin and Flutterby - RSS

Alcuin and Flutterby

   Exploring what might be

   __________________________________________________ Search
   Google
   Custom Search

Friday, October 03, 2014

altnews10#1ab

   [3]http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013/07/altnews101ab.html
   [4]Alcuin Bramerton Twitter .. [5]Alcuin Bramerton Medium .. [6]#1ab
   archive
   [7]Alcuin Bramerton profile ..... [8]Index of blog contents .....
   [9]Home .....[10]#1ab
   Picture: Xi Jingpin makes 4-point proposal for SCO development. Sept
   2014.
   [11]http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-ypVmGSVayQs/VBbi_cG6nYI/AAAAAAAAGq8/Ia2q0
   bH1K0g/s1600/Shanghai%2BCooperation%2BOrganization%2BSummit.%2BDushanbe
   %2C%2BTajikistan.%2BSeptember%2B2014.%2B%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Friday 12th September 2014.
   It is our common responsibility and mission to bring more security and
   benefit to the SCO member states and their people.
   Firstly, safeguarding regional security and stability is the SCO member
   states' responsibility.
   Currently, we should focus on combating religion-involved extremism and
   internet terrorism.
   I suggest that the SCO members launch a consultation on an
   anti-extremism convention and initiate studies on a mechanism for
   actions against internet terrorism.
   We should take it as our own responsibility to safeguard regional
   security and stability, enhance our ability to maintain stability,
   continue to boost cooperation on law enforcement and security, and
   improve the existing cooperation mechanisms.
   I call on the SCO members to grant the group's Regional
   Counter-Terrorism Structure (RCTS) a new function in combatting drug
   trafficking.
   We should make concerted efforts to crack down on the three evil forces
   of terrorism, extremism and separatism.
   Secondly, the SCO member states should adhere to the goal of common
   development and prosperity.
   The member states should discuss the possibility of conducting more
   extensive and higher level cooperation in trade and investment, in a
   bid to push forward regional economic integration.
   I urge member states to reach an agreement on establishing the SCO
   financial institution at an early date and beef up policy coordination
   on energy and food.
   I call on member states to enact an SCO partnership plan in science and
   technology, and to speed up the building of an information sharing
   platform on environment protection.
   Thirdly, the SCO member states should comprehensively promote
   people-to-people exchanges.
   I suggest that the SCO member states strengthen capacity building on
   international communication, enhance media cooperation, and support
   personnel training in the fields of public policy, administration and
   judiciary.
   China is willing to provide training opportunities for 2000 people of
   the SCO member states from 2015 to 2017, including officials, as well
   as management and technological staff.
   China will also invite 50 youth leaders from SCO member states to study
   in China every year over the next five years.
   Fourthly, the SCO should expand external exchanges and cooperation.
   Any country that is willing to join the SCO and meets the criteria is
   welcome to apply for membership of the organization.
   I urge a strengthening of the cooperation between the SCO member
   countries and its observers, as well as communication between SCO
   member countries and the organization's dialogue partners. The SCO
   should cement cooperation with international and regional
   organizations, such as the United Nations and the Conference on
   Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia.
   The SCO member countries, observers and dialogue partners are welcome
   to vigorously participate in the joint building of the Silk Road
   Economic Belt and promote regional connectivity.
   The SCO is facing significant opportunities and a bright prospect.
   Member states should stick to the 'Shanghai Spirit' of mutual trust,
   mutual benefit, equality, consultation, respect for cultural diversity
   and pursuit of common development.
   We should join hands to deal with threats and challenges with the
   strength of unity and cooperation, and jointly push forward SCO's
   development.
   Source of text [12]here (13.09.14).
   AB comment: The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation has three levels of
   membership. The core foundation member states are Russia, Kazakhstan,
   Kyrgyzstan, China, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. The observer states
   include Afghanistan, India, Iran, Mongolia and Pakistan. The dialogue
   partner states include Belarus, Turkey and Sri Lanka.
   India is likely to become a core SCO member in 2015, having formally
   applied for this status in September 2014.
   The SCO is a separate organisation from the BRICS and the Eurasian
   Union, but the interests of all three groups overlap substantially and,
   in de facto and de jure terms, they will supplant the G7 & NATO within
   five years. Already 180+ nations are formally or informally aligned
   with the BRICS. The CELAC, ALBA, ASEAN, UNASUR and AU transnational
   groupings are increasingly involved, now, in manifesting this new
   global alignment.
   The decline of the Western G7 fiat paper banking cartel will be
   presaged by the collapse of the US (DC corporation) petrodollar and the
   incremental disintegration of the EU and NATO.
   Germany, France, Turkey and Iran are likely to join the BRICS. The UK
   will become geopolitically neutral, like Switzerland. New gold and
   asset-backed regional currencies will be issued worldwide. Fiat paper
   currencies will be marginalised in international trade, and will die
   out altogether by 2025.
   The SCO Presidency from 2014-2015 is in the hands of Russia. Already
   Russia has planned over 100 different SCO-related events for this
   period. The Russian President, Vladimir Putin, has made some
   introductory comments about the Russian Presidency of the SCO [13]here
   (15.09.14).
   #
   #
   Picture: The Future Historians' List. Significant names in G7 banking
   collapse.
   [14]http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/the-future-historians-l
   ist.html
   #
   #
   [15]Ellen Brown: Fighting off the G7 banking vultures and confronting
   the austerity scam. Argentina is doing what Ecuador and Iceland have
   already done successfully, but what Greece did not.
   Argentina is playing hardball with the vulture funds, which have been
   trying to force it into an involuntary bankruptcy.
   The vultures are demanding what amounts to a 600% return on bonds
   bought for pennies on the dollar, defeating a 2005 settlement in which
   92% of creditors agreed to accept a 70% haircut on their bonds.
   A US court has backed the vulture funds; but in the middle of August
   2014, Argentina sidestepped its jurisdiction by transferring the
   trustee for payment from Bank of New York Mellon to its own central
   bank. That play, if approved by the Argentine Congress, will allow the
   country to continue making payments under its 2005 settlement, avoiding
   default on the majority of its bonds.
   Argentina is already foreclosed from international capital markets, so
   it doesn’t have much to lose by thwarting the US court system. Similar
   bold moves by Ecuador and Iceland have left those countries in
   substantially better shape than Greece, which went along with the
   agendas of the international financiers.
   The upside for Argentina was captured by President Fernandez in a
   nationwide speech on 19th August 2014: "When it comes to the
   sovereignty of our country and the conviction that we can no longer be
   extorted, and that we can’t become burdened with debt again, we are
   emerging as Argentines. If I signed what they’re trying to make me sign
   .... we would enter into the infernal cycle of debt which we’ve been
   subject to for so long."
   The deeper implications of that infernal cycle of debt cycle have been
   explored by Adrian Salbuchi: Where territories were once captured by
   military might, today they are being annexed by debt.
   The still-evolving plan is to drive destitute nations into an
   international bankruptcy court whose decisions would have the force of
   law throughout the world. The court could then do with whole countries
   what US bankruptcy courts do with businesses: sell off their assets,
   including their real estate. Sovereign territories could be acquired as
   the spoils of bankruptcy without a shot being fired.
   Global financiers and interlocking private megacorporations are
   increasingly supplanting governments on the international stage. An
   international bankruptcy court would be one more institution making
   that takeover legally binding and enforceable.
   At present, sovereign governments can say no to the strong-arm tactics
   of the global bankers’ collection agency, the IMF. However, an
   international bankruptcy court would allow creditors to force a nation
   into bankruptcy, where territories could be involuntarily sold off in
   the same way that assets of bankrupt corporations are.
   For Argentina, says Salbuchi, the likely prize is its very rich
   Patagonia region, long a favorite settlement target for ex-pats. When
   Argentina suffered a massive default in 2001, the G7 mainstream media
   machine proposed that Patagonia be ceded from the country as a
   defaulted debt payment mechanism. Debt for Territory: swapping public
   debt for government land.
   The corporate banksters' idea would be to transform a perceived
   Argentine public debt default into direct equity investment in which
   creditors can become land owners where they can develop  industrial,
   agricultural and real estate projects.
   Ceding Patagonia from Argentina was first suggested in 1896 by Theodor
   Herzl, founder of the Zionist movement, as a second settlement location
   for what became Zionist Palestine.
   In 2002, an IMF deputy manager called Anne Krueger asked: “Should
   countries like Argentina be able to declare themselves bankrupt?”
   Krueger's article was posted on the IMF website and flagged up as
   proposing some new and creative ideas on what to do about Argentina.
   With the US DC corporation and its Fed money laundry itself now
   bankrupt and facing imminent public default, this American-sourced idea
   has become contemporaneously risible
   In today’s delicate post-2008 banking system, a new sovereign debt
   crisis could thwart the corporate élite’s plans for an orderly
   transition towards a new global legal architecture which would allow
   orderly liquidation of financially-failed states like Argentina.
   Argentina’s present debt crisis can be traced back to 1955, when
   President Juan Domingo Perón was ousted in a very bloody
   US/UK/mega-bank-sponsored military coup.
   Perón was hated for his insistence on not indebting Argentina with the
   G7 mega-bankers. In 1946 he rejected joining the IMF. In 1953 he fully
   paid off all of Argentina’s sovereign debt. Once the mega-bankers got
   rid of him in 1956, they shoved Argentina into the IMF and created the
   Paris Club to engineer decades-worth of sovereign debt for vanquished
   Argentina, something they’ve been doing until today.
   Many sovereign countries have been subjected to similar treatment. When
   the country cannot pay, the IMF sweeps in with refinancing agreements
   with strings attached, including selling off public assets and slashing
   public services in order to divert government revenues into foreign
   debt service.
   It is worth asking a fundamental common-sense question: Why should
   national governments indebt themselves in hard currencies, decades into
   the future with global mega-bankers, when they could just as well
   finance these projects and needs far more safely by issuing the proper
   amounts of their own local sovereign currency instead?
   The big banksters' financial claims on wealth - bonds, mortgages and
   bank loans - are lent out to become somebody else’s debts in an
   exponentially expanding process. National economies have been obliged
   to pay their debts by cutting back new research, development and new
   physical reinvestment. This is the essence of IMF austerity plans, in
   which the currency is “stabilised” by further international borrowing
   on terms that destabilise the economy at large. Spiraling debt results
   in price inflation, since businesses have to raise their prices to
   cover the interest and fees on the debt.
   For governments to escape this austerity trap, they need to spend not
   less, but more money on the tangible capital formation that increases
   physical productivity.
   But where to get the investment money without getting sucked into the
   debt vortex? Where can Argentina get funding if the country is shut out
   of international capital markets? The common-sense response, Salbuchi
   observes, is for governments to issue the money they need directly.
   An alternative which can have virtually the same effect is for nations
   to borrow money issued by their own publicly-owned banks. Public banks
   generate credit just as private banks do; but unlike private lenders,
   they return interest and profits to the local economy. Their mandate is
   to serve the public, and that is where their profits go.
   Funding through their own government-issued currencies and
   publicly-owned banks has been successfully pursued by many countries
   historically, including Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Germany, China,
   Russia, Korea and Japan.
   Sovereign nations do need to be able to buy foreign products that they
   cannot acquire or produce domestically, and for that they need a form
   of currency or an international credit line that other nations will
   accept. But today, a global change is becoming manifest: sovereign
   nations are breaking away from the dying oil and weapons driven US
   dollar as the global reserve currency.
   Do we need a new Bretton Woods Accord? Or, as the BRICS seem to be
   suggesting, is that exactly what we do not need?
   Ellen Brown's full text is on her Web of Debt blog [16]here (25.08.14).
   #
   #
   Picture: Press by Pawel Kuczynski.
   [17]http://justpaste.it/files/justpaste/d89/a4816021/catch.gif
   Picture - Politics by Pawel Kuczynski.
   [18]http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-q87sYh8abNg/U_XsQM6lcoI/AAAAAAAAGng/yB_oU
   gInGOw/s1600/Politics%2B2%2Bby%2BPawel%2BKuczynski.%2B%231ab.jpg?SSImag
   eQuality=Full
   The two images above, and their clickthroughs, are by the Polish
   satirist, Pawel Kuczynski. More examples of Pawel Kuczynski's work can
   be found [19]here. #
   #
   #

     [20]#Bioweapons: [21]#Open [22]#letter to [23]#VladimirPutin on
     [24]#Ebola. [25]http://t.co/2l37cdVgxW [26]#1ab [27]#MSF [28]#NHS
     [29]#FortDetrick [30]#PortonDown [31]#GCHQ [32]#Cheltenham [33]#AU
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [34]August 14, 2014

     [35]#Élite [36]#disinformation: [37]#More on the [38]#UK [39]#GCHQ's
     [40]#Art of [41]#Deception [42]#powerpoint.
     [43]http://t.co/78lf5zcV1T [44]#1ab [45]#Cheltenham [46]#Windsor
     [47]#FalseFlag
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [48]August 15, 2014

     [49]#Geopolitics: Will [50]#post [51]#Zionist [52]#Israel be allowed
     a [53]#Jewish [54]#autonomous [55]#zone within the [56]#new
     [57]#MidEast [58]#caliphate? [59]http://t.co/UYMh6olsEB
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [60]August 17, 2014

   #
   #
   [61]Ron Paul: US sanctions on Russia risk sinking the dollar. In its
   attempt to isolate Russia, the US actually isolates itself.
   The US government's decision to apply more sanctions on Russia is a
   grave mistake and will only escalate an already tense situation,
   ultimately harming the US economy itself.
   While the effect of sanctions on the dollar may not be appreciated in
   the short term, in the long run these sanctions are just another step
   toward the dollar's eventual demise as the world's reserve currency.
   Not only is the US sanctioning Russian banks and companies, but it also
   is trying to strong-arm European banks into enacting harsh sanctions
   against Russia as well.
   Given the amount of business that European banks do with Russia,
   European sanctions could hurt Europe at least as much as Russia.
   At the same time the US expects cooperation from European banks, it is
   also prosecuting those same banks and fining them billions of dollars
   for violating existing US sanctions. It is not difficult to imagine
   that European banks will increasingly become fed up with having to act
   as the US government's unpaid policemen, while having to pay billions
   of dollars in fines every time they engage in business that Washington
   doesn't like.
   European banks are already cutting ties with American citizens and
   businesses due to the stringent compliance required by recently-passed
   laws such as FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act). In the IRS's
   quest to suck in as much tax dollars as possible from around the world,
   the agency has made Americans into the pariahs of the international
   financial system.
   As the burdens the US government places on European banks grow heavier,
   it should be expected that more and more European banks will reduce
   their exposure to the United States and to the dollar, eventually
   leaving the US isolated. Attempting to isolate Russia, the US actually
   isolates itself.
   Another effect of sanctions is that Russia will grow closer to its
   BRICS (Brazil Russia India China South Africa) allies. These countries
   count over 40 percent of the world's population, have a combined
   economic output almost equal to the US and EU, and have significant
   natural resources at their disposal.
   Russia is one of the world's largest oil producers and supplies Europe
   with a large percent of its natural gas. Brazil has the second-largest
   industrial sector in the Americas and is the world's largest exporter
   of ethanol. China is rich in mineral resources and is the world's
   largest food producer.
   Already Russia and China are signing agreements to conduct their
   bilateral trade with their own national currencies rather than with the
   dollar, a trend which, if it spreads, will continue to erode the
   dollar's position in international trade.
   Perhaps more importantly, China, Russia, and South Africa together
   produce nearly 40 percent of the world's gold, which could play a rôle
   if the BRICS countries decide to establish a gold-backed currency to
   challenge the dollar.
   US policymakers fail to realize that the United States is not the
   global hegemon it was after World War II. They fail to understand that
   their overbearing actions toward other countries, even those considered
   friends, have severely eroded any good will that might previously have
   existed. And they fail to appreciate that more than 70 years of
   devaluing the dollar has put the rest of the world on edge.
   There is a reason the euro was created, a reason that China is moving
   to internationalize its currency, and a reason that other countries
   around the world seek to negotiate monetary and trade compacts. The
   rest of the world is tired of subsidizing the United States
   government's enormous debts, and tired of producing and exporting
   trillions of dollars of goods to the US, only to receive increasingly
   worthless dollars in return.
   The US government has always relied on the cooperation of other
   countries to maintain the dollar's preeminent position. But
   international patience is wearing thin, especially as the
   carrot-and-stick approach of recent decades has become all stick and no
   carrot.
   If President Obama and his successors continue with their heavy-handed
   approach of levying sanctions against every country that does something
   US policymakers don’t like, it will only lead to more countries
   shunning the dollar and accelerating the dollar's slide into
   irrelevance.
   The full text of Ron Paul's article is [62]here (10.08.14). Dr Ron Paul
   is a former Republican Congressman from Texas who was in office from
   January 1997 to January 2013 . During that time he served spells as the
   Chairman of the US House Financial Services Subcommittee on Domestic
   Monetary Policy and Technology, and as a member of the US House Foreign
   Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. More about the
   Ron Paul Institute can be found [63]here, and a related Twitter feed is
   [64]here.
   Picture : Venn diagram. Yes. No. Wait. 180th anniversary of birth of
   John Venn.
   [65]http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-7luMiG7FHkI/U99TQ-J8UEI/AAAAAAAAGlA/R1l0Q
   ieeJX4/s1600/Venn+diagram.+Jesus,+Dracula+&+Frankenstein.+%231ab.jpg?SS
   ImageQuality=Full
   #

     [66]#Ukraine: [67]#Kyiv tries to [68]#fake [69]#up [70]#satellite
     [71]#data to clear itself of [72]#MH17 [73]#atrocity [74]#blame.
     [75]http://t.co/y7cLjSXSlo [76]#1ab [77]#Odessa [78]#Lviv [79]#EU
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [80]August 2, 2014

   #
   # #
   [81]Good terrorists or bad terrorists?
   Is there any important difference between the concept of 'Just War' and
   the concept of 'Just Terrorism'?
   Samah Jabr: Why is the word 'terrorist' so readily applied to
   individuals or groups who use homemade bombs, but not to states using
   nuclear and other internationally proscribed weapons to ensure
   submission to the oppressor?
   Source [82]here (25.07.14).
   Related: UK Jewish MP Gerald Kaufman: 'Israel was born out of Jewish
   terrorism.' Source [83]here (26.07.14).
   Related: Bolivia declares Israel to be a terrorist state. Source
   [84]here (30.07.14).
   Related: Judaism rejects Zionism and the State of 'Israel'. Source
   [85]here (04.09.14).
   #
   #
   Picture: The US State of Israel. Killing Muslims for Jesus. Palestine
   July 2014
   [86]http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-wx3hsTh4tco/U8zQb3ziBGI/AAAAAAAAGjI/YqTRB
   Gp-ASM/s1600/The+US+State+of+Israel.+Killing+Muslims+for+Jesus.+Palesti
   ne+July+2014.+(2)+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   Picture: Palestine July 2014. Gaza genocide.
   [87]http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-wtzxEIxVpgA/U8zPRT7AEeI/AAAAAAAAGiw/H8q24
   4pDBy8/s1600/Palestine+July+2014.+Gaza+genocide+(3)+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQ
   uality=Full
   Picture: Palestine July 2014. Gaza genocide.
   [88]http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-ExQW_POUgsc/U8zPsGzxPjI/AAAAAAAAGi4/DUbWD
   xKrCws/s1600/Palestine+July+2014.+Gaza+genocide+(4)+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQ
   uality=Full
   #
   #
   #
   Picture: Vladimir Putin pointing at press conference. Russia.
   [89]http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-kH7qkKXujxU/U7fmniSCuzI/AAAAAAAAGiM/2-eGx
   qcFNXY/s1600/Vladimir+Putin+looking+glum+with+Angela+Merkel.+Russia.+Ge
   rmany.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   [90]Russian President Vladimir Putin's speech to the Conference of
   Russian ambassadors and permanent representatives, in Moscow, on
   Tuesday 1st July 2014.
   Colleagues, friends,
   Meetings with the diplomatic corps have become a tradition. We need
   this direct conversation to make an overall assessment of the situation
   in the world, to set current and long-term foreign policy objectives
   and on that basis to more effectively coordinate the work of our
   missions abroad.
   I would like to begin by saying that the Foreign Ministry and our
   embassies are under a lot of pressure; we see this, we are aware of
   this, but this pressure will not be reduced. It will only increase,
   just as the requirement to show efficiency, precision and flexibility
   in our actions to ensure Russia’s national interests.
   You know how dynamic and unpredictable international developments may
   sometimes be. They seem to be pressed together and unfortunately are
   not all of a positive nature. The potential for conflict is growing in
   the world, old contradictions are growing ever more acute and new ones
   are being provoked. We come across such developments, often
   unexpectedly, and we observe with regret that international law is not
   working, the most basic norms of decency are not complied with and the
   principle of all-permissiveness is gaining the upper hand.
   We are observing this in Ukraine as well. We need to understand clearly
   that the events provoked in Ukraine are the concentrated outcome of the
   notorious deterrence policy. As you may know, its roots go deep into
   history and it is clear that unfortunately, this policy did not end
   with the end of the Cold War.
   In Ukraine, as you may have seen, at threat were our compatriots,
   Russian people and people of other nationalities, their language,
   history, culture and legal rights, guaranteed, by the way, by European
   conventions. When I speak of Russians and Russian-speaking citizens I
   am referring to those people who consider themselves part of the broad
   Russian community, they may not necessarily be ethnic Russians, but
   they consider themselves Russian people.
   What did our partners expect from us as the developments in Ukraine
   unfolded? We clearly had no right to abandon the residents of Crimea
   and Sevastopol to the mercy of nationalist and radical militants; we
   could not allow our access to the Black Sea to be significantly
   limited; we could not allow NATO forces to eventually come to the land
   of Crimea and Sevastopol, the land of Russian military glory, and
   cardinally change the balance of forces in the Black Sea area. This
   would mean giving up practically everything that Russia had fought for
   since the times of Peter the Great, or maybe even earlier - historians
   should know.
   I would like to make it clear to all: our country will continue to
   actively defend the rights of Russians, our compatriots abroad, using
   the entire range of available means - from political and economic to
   operations under international humanitarian law and the right of
   self-defence.
   I would like to stress that what happened in Ukraine was the climax of
   the negative tendencies in international affairs that had been building
   up for years. We have long been warning about this, and unfortunately,
   our predictions came true.
   You know about the latest efforts to restore, to maintain peace in
   Ukraine. Foreign Ministry staff and the Minister himself took an active
   part in this. You know about the numerous telephone conversations we
   had on this subject.
   Unfortunately, President Poroshenko has resolved to resume military
   action, and we failed - when I say ‘we’, I mean my colleagues in Europe
   and myself - we failed to convince him that the road to a secure,
   stable and inviolable peace cannot lie through war.
   So far Mr Poroshenko was not directly linked to the orders to begin
   military action, and only now did he take full responsibility, and not
   only military, but political as well, which is much more important.
   We also failed to agree to make public the statement approved by the
   foreign ministers of Germany, France, Russia and Ukraine on the need to
   maintain peace and search for mutually acceptable solutions.
   I would like to draw your attention to the fact that after the
   ceasefire was declared, no substantive, as you say, negotiations on the
   settlement of the situation ever began. Virtually, a disarmament
   ultimatum was given. However, even the ceasefire was not bad overall,
   though not enough to settle the situation on a long-term basis in a way
   that would be acceptable to all the people living in the country,
   including those in its southeast.
   A constitution was made public, but it was never discussed.  Even
   within Ukrainian society there is a discussion of whether it is good or
   bad, but nobody definitely ever discussed it with the east.
   Of course, everything that is going on in Ukraine is the internal
   affair of the Ukrainian state. It pains us to see people dying,
   especially civilians. As you may know, the number of refugees in the
   Russian Federation is growing. We will of course provide assistance to
   all those who need it. However, killing journalists is unacceptable. I
   reminded the Ukrainian President of this yesterday yet again.
   In my view, we are observing a focused effort to liquidate all media
   representatives. This applies to both Russian and foreign journalists.
   Who could be afraid of fair reporting? Probably those, who are
   committing crimes. We strongly hope that the Ukrainian authorities act
   on their promises to carefully investigate the crimes.
   More new hotspots are appearing on the world map. There is a deficit of
   security in Europe, in the Middle East, South-East Asia, in the
   Asia-Pacific region and in Africa. The global economic, financial and
   trade systems are becoming unbalanced, and moral and spiritual values
   are being washed out.
   There is hardly any doubt that the unipolar world order did not come to
   be. Peoples and countries are raising their voices in favour of
   self-determination and civilizational and cultural identity, which
   conflicts with the attempts by certain countries to maintain their
   domination in the military sphere, in politics, finance, the economy
   and in ideology.
   I know this has no direct bearing on us, however what is being done to
   the French banks can cause nothing but indignation in Europe in general
   and here as well. We are aware of the pressure our American partners
   are putting on France to force it not to supply Mistrals to Russia. We
   even know that they hinted that if France does not deliver the
   Mistrals, the sanctions will be quietly lifted from their banks, or at
   least they will be significantly minimised.
   What is this if not blackmail? Is this the right way to act on the
   international arena? Besides, when we speak of sanctions, we always
   assume that sanctions are applied pursuant to Article 7 of the UN
   Charter. Otherwise, these are not sanctions in the true legal sense of
   the word, but something different, some other unilateral policy
   instrument.
   In the past 20 years, our partners have been trying to convince Russia
   of their good intentions, their readiness to jointly develop strategic
   cooperation. However, at the same time they kept expanding NATO,
   extending the area under their military and political control ever
   closer to our borders. And when we rightfully asked: “Don’t you find it
   possible and necessary to discuss this with us?” they said: “No, this
   is none of your business.” Those who continue insisting on their
   exclusivity strongly dislike Russia’s independent policy. The events in
   Ukraine prove this. They also prove that a model of relations full of
   double standards does not work with Russia.
   Nevertheless, I hope pragmatism will eventually prevail. We need to get
   rid of ambitions, of attempts to establish a ‘world barracks’ and
   arrange everybody by rank, or to impose single rules of behaviour and
   life, and to finally begin building relations based on equality, mutual
   respect and concern for mutual interests. It is time we admit each
   other’s right to be different, the right of every country to live its
   own life rather than to be told what to do by someone else.
   Colleagues, in its foreign policy Russia has been consistently
   proceeding from the notion that solutions to global and regional
   conflicts should be sought not through confrontation, but through
   cooperation and compromise. We advocate the supremacy of international
   law while supporting the UN’s leading role.
   International law should be mandatory for all and should not be applied
   selectively to serve the interests of individual select countries or
   groups of states, and most importantly, it should be interpreted
   consistently. It is impossible to interpret it in one way today, and in
   a different way tomorrow to match the political goals of the day.
   World development cannot be unified. However, we can look for common
   issues, see each other as partners rather than competitors, and
   establish cooperation between states, their associations and
   integration structures.
   These are the principles we were guided by in the past, and they
   continue to guide us now as we promote integration within the CIS.
   Strengthening close friendly ties and developing mutually advantageous
   economic cooperation with our neighbours is the key strategic priority
   of Russia’s long-term foreign policy.
   The driving force behind Eurasian integration is the trio of Russia,
   Belarus and Kazakhstan. The Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union,
   signed in Astana on May 29, symbolises a qualitatively new step in our
   relations. A powerful centre of economic development that attracts
   business and investors, a common market is being formed in Eurasia.
   That is why our CIS partners show a strong interest in this union. I
   hope that very soon, Armenia will become a full-fledged member of this
   union. Negotiations with Kyrgyzstan are at an advanced stage. We are
   open to other Commonwealth states as well.
   As we promote the Eurasian integration project, we are in no way trying
   to separate ourselves from the rest of the world; we are ready to
   consider prospects for creating free trade zones both with individual
   states and with regional associations and unions, primarily the
   European Union, of course.
   Europe is our natural and most significant trade and economic partner.
   We strive to find new opportunities to expand our business cooperation,
   to open up new prospects for mutual investment and to lift trade
   barriers. This requires an upgrade of the legal contractual base of our
   cooperation and the stability and predictability of ties, primarily in
   such strategically important areas as energy. Stability on the entire
   territory of Eurasia and sustainable development of the EU economies
   and Russia depend on well-coordinated cooperation based on
   consideration for mutual interests.
   We have always held high our reputation of a reliable supplier of
   energy resources and invested in the development of gas infrastructure.
   Together with European companies, as you may know, we have built a new
   gas transportation system called Nord Stream under the Baltic Sea.
   Despite certain difficulties, we will promote the South Stream project,
   especially since ever more European politicians and businessmen are
   coming to understand that someone simply wants to use Europe in their
   own interests, that it is becoming a hostage of someone’s near-sighted
   ideologised approaches.
   If we return to Ukraine, the violation by Ukraine of its commitments
   regarding the purchase of our natural gas has become a common problem.
   Kiev refuses to pay on its debt. This is absolutely unacceptable. They
   have not paid for November-December of last year, though there were no
   arguments whatsoever then.
   Our partners are using blatant blackmail - this is what it is. They
   demand an ungrounded reduction of prices on our goods, though the
   agreement was signed in 2009, and the parties complied with it in good
   faith. Now, as you may know, the court in Kiev has lifted all
   accusations against Ukraine’s former Prime Minister Tymoshenko, who
   signed the contract. Thus, the Kiev court authorities admit that they
   have done everything right not only by international law, but by
   Ukrainian law as well. But they do not wish to comply, or to pay for
   the product already received.
   As of June 16, as you may know, we have transferred Ukraine to a
   pre-payment system, so they will get exactly the amount of gas they pay
   for. Today they do not pay; therefore, they are not getting anything -
   only in the so-called reverse mode. We know all about this reverse
   mode: it is a fake; there is no reverse mode. How can you supply gas
   two ways along the same pipeline? One does not have to be a gas
   transportation expert to understand that this is impossible. They are
   playing tricks with some of their partners: in fact, they are getting
   our gas and paying some western partners in Europe who are not
   receiving their volume. We are quire aware of this.
   We are not taking any action at this point only because we do not want
   the situation to deteriorate. However, everyone should draw the proper
   conclusions from the situation. The main thing is that honest gas
   consumers and suppliers should not suffer from the actions of Ukrainian
   politicians and bureaucrats.
   Generally, all of us - Ukraine, our European partners, and we - should
   seriously consider how to reduce the probability of any type of
   political or economic risks or force majeure situations on the
   continent.
   In this connection, I would like to remind you that in August 2015 we
   will be marking 40 years of the Final Act of the Conference on Security
   and Cooperation in Europe. This anniversary is a good reason not only
   to turn to the basic principles of cooperation on the continent that
   were laid back in 1975, but also to jointly make them work, to help
   them take root in practical European politics.
   We have to work consistently to rule out any unconstitutional coups in
   Europe, any interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states,
   the use of blackmail or threats in international relations or the
   support of radical and neo-Nazi forces.
   All of us in Europe need a sort of safety net to make sure that Iraqi,
   Libyan or Syrian - and unfortunately, I have to say also Ukrainian -
   precedents do not become contagious. This is especially dangerous for
   the post-Soviet area, because the states have yet not gained political
   or economic strength, they do not have a stable political system. It is
   very important that the constitutions of these states be treated with
   great care and respect.
   Why is this important - and not only on the post-Soviet area, but all
   over Europe? Because even in those countries of Western and Eastern
   Europe where things seem to be going fine, there are quite a few hidden
   ethnic and social contradictions that may become acute any moment, may
   serve as ground for conflicts and extremism, and may be used by
   external forces to rock the social and political situation to achieve
   an illegitimate undemocratic change of power with all the negative
   consequences.
   Firm guarantees of indivisible security, stability, respect for
   sovereignty and non-interference in each other’s internal affairs
   should become the basis that we can use to build a common space for
   economic and humanitarian cooperation that would spread from the
   Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean - I already spoke of this as a
   single space from Lisbon to Vladivostok.
   I would like to ask the Foreign Ministry to draft a set of proposals in
   this respect, with special focus on the inadmissibility of any attempts
   to influence internal political processes from the outside. The job is
   to work the traditional principle of non-interference into the modern
   European realities and initiate a serious international discussion on
   the subject.
   We also need to continue strengthening the eastern vector of our
   diplomacy, to more intensively use the impressive potential of the
   Asia-Pacific region in the interests of the further development of our
   country, primarily, of course, of Siberia and the Far East. We should
   continue to direct Russia’s policy in Asia and the Pacific at
   maintaining the security of our eastern borders and at supporting peace
   and stability in the region. The coming leadership of Russia in the
   Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, and the SCO and BRICS summits to be
   held in Ufa in the summer of 2015 work to support this.
   We need to strengthen overall partnership and strategic cooperation
   with the People’s Republic of China. We can say that a strong
   Russian-Chinese connection has taken shape on the international arena.
   It is based on a coincidence of views on both global processes and key
   regional issues. It is of primary importance that Russian-Chinese
   friendship is not directed against anyone: we are not creating any
   military unions. On the contrary, this is an example of equal,
   respectful and productive cooperation between states in the 21st
   century.
   We intend to further develop our relations with our traditional
   partners in this area of the world: with India and Vietnam, who are
   playing an ever-greater role in the world; with Japan and other
   countries, including the ASEAN states. We intend to further use the
   potential of the growing markets in Latin America and Africa and the
   great experience of political and humanitarian relations with the
   countries there.
   Our contacts with the United States of America are of great importance
   for the whole world. We do not intend to shut down our relations with
   the USA. True, bilateral relations are not in their best shape, but - I
   would like to stress this - not through Russia’s fault. We have always
   tried to be predictable partners and conduct our affairs on the basis
   of equality. However, in return, our lawful interests were often
   ignored.
   Now over to various types of international meetings. If we are assigned
   the observer role without a decisive vote on key issues that are of
   vital importance to us, then such meetings are of little interest to
   us. We should not sacrifice our vital interests just for the sake of
   being able to sit and observe. I hope our partners will eventually come
   to understand this obvious fact. So far, we have been hearing
   ultimatums or mentoring. Nevertheless, we are ready for dialogue, but I
   would like to stress that this should be an equal dialogue.
   Colleagues, the complicated and unpredictable situation in the world
   places great demands on Russian diplomats’ professional level. The
   Foreign Ministry’s staff in Moscow and the Russian embassies abroad
   worked effectively and in coordinated fashion during the serious
   situation with Crimea and Ukraine, and I want to thank you for this. I
   particularly note the work done by the heads and staff of Russia’s
   representative missions at the UN and other key international
   organisations.
   We must continue working with just such energy and dignity, in a spirit
   of tact, restraint and sense of measure of course. Our position must be
   based on clear and unshakeable principles of international law and
   legal and historical justification, on truth, justice, and the strength
   of moral superiority.
   For my part, I can say that our country’s leadership will continue to
   do everything necessary to give you good conditions for your
   professional activity. As you know, I have signed presidential
   executive orders raising the wages of Foreign Ministry staff. Wages of
   people working at the central office will increase 1.4-fold on average.
   Pensions for diplomatic personnel taking their retirement after January
   1, 2014, will increase 3.5-fold on average. Pay for the heads of
   foreign diplomatic missions will increase four-fold on average in ruble
   equivalent. Pension top-ups for ambassadors and permanent envoys going
   into retirement have also increased considerably.
   Wages in rubles for personnel at diplomatic missions abroad will be
   increased a bit later, from January 1, 2016, but this will be a
   four-fold increase. I hope that these steps will help to boost the
   Foreign Ministry’s human resources potential and thus make us more
   effective in carrying out our foreign policy.
   I also ask the Government to speed up the decision on providing
   additional guarantees for personnel from other agencies and
   administrative and technical personnel working at Russian missions
   abroad, especially in situations where there are terrorist threats.
   The Foreign Ministry has raised the question of giving diplomatic
   service the official legal status as a special type of civil service in
   Russia. We will examine this proposal.
   This concludes my opening remarks.
   I thank the members of the media for the attention they have given our
   work.
   Source: [91]here (01.07.14).
   #
   #
   #
   Picture: $100B China money for Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
   BRICS.
   [92]http://rt.com/business/168620-china-world-bank-own/
   Picture: Chinese premier, Li Keqiang, London, UK. June 2014. + David
   Cameron.
   [93]http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-2FIazy7XDkc/U62em2FCdKI/AAAAAAAAGhs/uqMkQ
   KVw2us/s1600/Chinese+premier,+Li+Keqiang,+London,+UK.+June+2014.+%231ab
   +Plus+David+Cameron,+British+Prime+Minister.+(2)+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQual
   ity=Full
   #
   [94]Chinese Premier Li Keqiang's speech at the City of London
   Corporation, The Mansion House, London (UK) on Wednesday 18th June
   2014.
   Inclusive Development: A Better World for All
   The Royal Institute of International Affairs, known as Chatham House,
   and the International Institute for Strategic Studies are well-known
   around the world. Today, you are hosting this event together. This
   shows the great importance you attach to China, and is a reflection of
   inclusiveness.
   Inclusiveness is the mark of human civilization and progress.
   Chinese thinkers before the Qin Dynasty valued the notion of harmony
   without uniformity and believed in peace as being most precious. This
   coincides with the belief of ancient European philosophers that harmony
   generates justice and kindness.
   The history of human development shows that the Eastern and Western
   civilizations, though of different origins, both appreciated the
   importance of harmonious coexistence, inclusiveness and mutual
   learning.
   Inclusiveness and common development are needed all the more in the
   21st century. We need not only to increase employment and promote
   balanced, coordinated, fair and equitable development within a country;
   we also need to achieve development that features peaceful coexistence
   and common growth among countries and regions. Inclusive development
   should indeed be a common goal pursued by all countries in the world.
   The world is paying great attention to China. There are all kinds of
   views about China' s economic growth.
   A line from a Chinese poem reads: "A mountain, when viewed in face, may
   look like a range; when viewed from the side, it may look like a peak."
   That means a mountain, seen from different angles, will leave people
   with different impressions. What it implies is that different
   conclusions may be drawn when people see things from different
   perspectives.
   The UK is the first to complete industrialization, while China is the
   biggest developing country in the world. I believe your interest in
   China is actually about whether the world can achieve inclusive
   development.
   China's pursuit of a new type of industrialization, informationization,
   urbanization and agricultural modernization is a pursuit of inclusive
   development on the biggest scale in the world.
   After more than 30 years of reform and opening-up, and through the hard
   work of our people, China has steadily improved the lives of its 1.3
   billion people, lifted over 600 million people out of poverty, and
   ensured the people's right to survival and development.
   China's development has been achieved in an open environment.
   The firm goal of our 1.3 billion people is to achieve modernization,
   which will be a long journey. China is the second biggest economy in
   the world, but it ranks after 80th in the world with a per capita GDP
   of US$6,800. In China' s vast central and western as well as
   northeastern regions, per capita GDP is slightly over US$5,000 and it
   is a mere US$3,000 in some western provinces.
   Some 200 million Chinese still live below the poverty line by World
   Bank standards.
   At the same time, fast economic growth has been accompanied by a
   growing pressure on resources and the environment. These will remain
   our difficulties and challenges in the long run. To achieve
   modernization, it is important to complete industrialization and
   urbanization. This is exactly what the Chinese people are working for
   at present and for some time to come.
   (1) China's urbanization
   In the past few decades, China' s urbanization has been advancing, but
   it is still lagging behind on the whole. Over 600 million Chinese are
   still living in rural areas. Due to inadequate financial resources and
   limited public goods, the 200 million rural migrants cannot enjoy the
   same public services as those who have been living in cities with urban
   residency.
   Between now and 2020, we need to grant urban residency to 100 million
   of such rural migrants, mainly in eastern China. We also need to
   encourage another 100 million rural residents in central and western
   regions to settle down in cities and towns nearby.
   In addition, there are 100 million Chinese living in run-down city
   areas, which need to be redeveloped at a faster pace. To address these
   three problems, each involving 100 million people, is a pressing task
   for China as it pushes forward the new type of urbanization.
   But our challenges go beyond that. Even if we had solved all the
   above-mentioned problems for the 300 million people, we still have
   several hundred million farmers who will move to cities in the coming
   years. This will be difficult to accomplish without over ten years or
   even longer, and the tasks will only be more difficult on our way
   ahead.
   For any country to complete industrialization, it has to achieve
   agricultural modernization, raise agricultural productivity and, on
   normal cases, keep the percentage of agricultural population low. China
   will not be an exception. To have so many people move to live and work
   in cities in an orderly manner will be a long process. That is why we
   say that China will not be able to become a medium-level developed
   country and achieve modernization until the middle of the century.
   (2) China's industrialization
   Industrialization is an important aspect of modernization. It took
   western countries over 100 years to achieve industrialization, while
   China has instituted a full-fledged industrial system in just a couple
   of decades.
   China now leads the world in the output of many industrial products.
   You are all familiar with goods "made in China" , but China mainly
   produces medium- to-low-end products. It has to advance to a
   medium-to-high level in industrial development.
   Industrial upgrading will serve our joint response to climate change.
   It is also a natural choice for China if it is to break energy,
   resources and environment bottlenecks. China will pursue a new type of
   industrialization, advocate green and low-carbon development and step
   up efforts to conserve energy and reduce emissions so that Chinese
   products will be more energy-efficient and environment-friendly, and
   China will achieve internally-driven growth through innovation.
   This will also bring huge business opportunities for the world. In the
   coming five years, China will import more than US$10 trillion worth of
   goods, and invest over US$500 billion overseas. Outbound visits by
   Chinese tourists will exceed 500 million. China will be happy to share
   its development dividends with other countries in the world.
   In the modernization drive of such a populous country like China, there
   is no example to follow.
   We face a whole range of challenges and need to make hard exploration
   and efforts. After decades of fast growth, China' s growth has
   moderated to a medium-to-high speed compared with the double-digit rate
   in the past. Some people begin to worry that the Chinese economy will
   not maintain sustained growth and will head for a hard landing. I can
   assure you that such things will not happen, because economic growth in
   China is supported by urbanization and industrialization.
   What is more, there are big gaps between urban and rural areas and
   among different regions as well as unreasonable industrial structure.
   All these mean potential and huge domestic demand for China' s
   development. As long as we keep to the right direction and work hard,
   we will be able to maintain medium-to-high growth of the Chinese
   economy for a long time to come.
   Since the beginning of this year, the Chinese economy has maintained
   stability on the whole, despite considerable downward pressure. We will
   continue to follow a proactive fiscal policy and a prudent monetary
   policy. We will not resort to massive stimulus measures; instead, we
   will further innovate the thinking and model of macro-regulation,
   combine a ranged approach with a targeted approach in adjustment;
   strengthen anticipatory adjustments and fine-tuning, and ensure
   economic growth will stay within a proper range between the minimum
   rate needed for job creation and the CPI growth ceiling to keep
   inflation under control.
   We have confidence in meeting the growth target of about 7.5% set for
   this year. This will also lay a solid foundation for our future
   development.
   China' s economic aggregate has exceeded US$9 trillion. An annual
   growth of around 7.5%, adjusted for inflation, will be translated to an
   increment of about US$1 trillion, equivalent to a medium-sized economy.
   This is no easy job, but it will bring huge business opportunities to
   China and the world. I have given you so many figures, not to play a
   game of numbers, but to show you that China has the condition and
   ability to promote balanced, coordinated, sustained and healthy
   economic development.
   (3) China's peaceful development
   To achieve modernization in a big developing country like China, and to
   fulfil the Chinese dream of great national renewal requires a peaceful
   international environment and stable neighbourhood. Otherwise, we
   cannot focus on development. This is an irrefutable truth.
   The Chinese people love peace. Our ancestors taught us that we should
   not do to others what we don' t want others to do to us, and that we
   must help others achieve success if we want to achieve success
   ourselves. This has been imprinted into the DNA of the Chinese nation
   and become an accepted code of conduct for the Chinese people.
   Expansion is not in the Chinese DNA, nor does China subscribe to the
   logic that a strong country is bound to be hegemonic.
   The achievements China has made through development in the past three
   decades are attributable to an external environment of peace and
   stability. The path of peaceful development has benefited the Chinese
   people and enabled different countries to achieve win-win development.
   This is the one important thing we have learned from our development
   over the past decades and we will never give it up. China will remain
   committed to inclusiveness, openness, peace and cooperation even after
   it becomes stronger in the future.
   China is a major responsible country. China stands for mutual respect,
   equality and peaceful coexistence among countries and acts in
   accordance with the UN Charter and the norms governing international
   relations.
   China calls for peaceful settlement of disputes and conflicts through
   diplomatic channels, and opposes the use of force or interference in
   other countries' internal affairs.
   China is steadfast in pursuing the path of peaceful development and
   follows a win-win strategy of opening-up. China is ready to work with
   other countries to foster an international environment of enduring
   peace.
   China has over the years contributed significantly to peace and
   stability in Asia. Thanks to the common ground China reached with
   neighboring countries for cooperation and win-win progress, a sound
   atmosphere has been created for handling differences through
   negotiations and consultations; hence the prosperity and development of
   East Asia today.
   China follows a neighbourhood policy of building friendship and
   partnerships with surrounding countries and wants to live in peace with
   all its neighbors.
   But for those acts of provoking incidents and undermining peace, China
   will have to take resolute measures to stop them so as to prevent the
   situation from getting out of control, and bring the situation back to
   the track of dialogue and negotiations. I believe as long as countries
   in the region engage in dialogue and negotiations with sincerity and
   good faith, the environment of peace and tranquility will be
   maintained.
   History tells us that war means the failure of human wisdom.
   Peace is the result of reflection on disasters and sufferings. As the
   former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill once said: "In history
   lies all the secrets of statecraft. Those that fail to learn from
   history are doomed to repeat it."
   We must learn lessons from the past, face history squarely, and be
   forward-looking. We need to seek political settlement of international
   and regional issues, and work together to counter traditional and
   non-traditional security challenges, and advance prosperity and
   development of the world.
   (4) China's reform and opening-up
   China' s modernization needs not only a peaceful and stable external
   environment, but also strong impetus from reform and opening-up.
   China' s big population means tremendous creativity, and its market has
   huge vibrancy.
   I once worked as the Party secretary of a village production team in
   Fengyang county, Anhui province, back in the 1970s, in a time of
   planned economy. I was responsible for assigning work to the hundreds
   of farmers in the village every day.
   The villagers worked hard in the field from dawn to dusk, but still
   they could make very little for a decent meal. Later, to enforce rural
   reform, the system of household contract responsibility was introduced,
   which gave villagers the right to decide what crops to grow and how to
   grow them. In just a few years, food was no longer a problem.
   It is reform and opening-up that has given hundreds of millions of
   Chinese vast space for pursuing their own development, and spurred
   steady social progress. Reform has led to fast development of China. It
   has provided a driving force for economic growth today, and it will
   sustain China' s development in the years to come.
   The key to reform is to streamline administration and delegate
   government power.
   To further energize the market and encourage greater creativity from
   society, the government needs, first and foremost, to reform itself by
   delegating powers on matters outside its mandate, and leave to the
   market what should be decided by the market.
   Though the economy was operating under difficulties last year, we
   managed to unleash the potential of private investment through
   streamlining administration and delegating power.
   The reform of business registration system in March this year was
   followed by a surge of over 40% in the number of newly registered
   businesses, giving a strong boost to new business start-ups and job
   creation.
   We will also advance structural reform and give more play to the role
   of private capital by easing market access.
   All in all, the purpose of reform is to inspire the enthusiasm of the
   Chinese people and provide more platforms for their innovation and
   creation, so that there will be a chance for everyone' s dream to come
   true.
   Of course, to delegate power does not mean that the government will
   give free rein to everything. We will delegate power while enforcing
   government regulations with tighter oversight on, and law-based
   handling of, the production and selling of counterfeit and shoddy
   goods, IPR infringement and environmental pollution.
   Opening-up is in itself a way of reform. We will implement a new round
   of opening-up, ease market access for foreign investment, and open the
   services sector and hinterland and border areas more widely to the
   outside.
   We will explore, through the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, a
   management model featuring pre-establishment national treatment plus a
   negative list approach. Our purpose is to provide a level playing field
   for Chinese and foreign investors and businesses alike.
   China regards the UK as a choice of destination for outbound investment
   and hopes British companies will take China as their major investment
   destination.
   Deepening reform and opening-up is bound to unleash enormous vitality
   in the Chinese economy, benefiting the Chinese people, bringing more
   opportunities to the world, and making important contribution to the
   inclusive development of the world.
   The global economy is on the whole showing signs of recovery, but there
   are still many uncertainties and destabilizing factors.
   Developed and developing countries have become the twin engines of
   world economic growth. Countries need to continue to demonstrate the
   spirit of solidarity, coordination and cooperation shown in the course
   of coping with the international financial crisis, vigorously carry out
   reform and innovation, enhance coordination on macroeconomic policies,
   remove protectionist barriers, and foster a level playing field to
   expand converging interests and share the fruits of globalization.
   The past ten years, since establishment of the comprehensive strategic
   partnership between our two countries, has witnessed fruitful results
   in bilateral cooperation in business, science and technology,
   people-to-people exchanges, and other fields.
   During my visit, I had in-depth and candid talks with the government
   leaders of the UK.
   The two countries issued a joint statement. The two sides shared the
   view that China and the UK need to strengthen political trust and
   strategic cooperation, respect each other's core interests and major
   concerns, increase communication and coordination at the UN Security
   Council, and, in such multilateral mechanisms as the G20, work together
   to uphold the multilateral trading regime, promote negotiations on a
   China-EU investment treaty, and feasibility studies on establishing a
   China-EU free trade area, and increase dialogue on climate change and
   counter-terrorism, etc.
   The two sides need to make full use of the guiding role of the annual
   meeting between the prime ministers of the two countries, and other
   mechanisms to ensure that our cooperation operates smoothly and
   efficiently across the board. China and the UK may work together to
   contribute to the development of China-EU relations as a whole.
   China and the UK need to work as partners for common growth and
   inclusive development. We need not only to expand, but also enrich our
   cooperation. We need not only to do business with each other, but also
   conduct more high-tech cooperation.
   China will work more closely with the UK in infrastructure,
   manufacturing, urbanization and other areas to increase two-way trade
   and investment.
   China and the UK will launch direct trading between the RMB and
   sterling, and China will open an RMB clearing bank in London, which
   will enhance our financial cooperation.
   The UK leads the world in innovative development, especially in new and
   high technologies, energy conservation, environmental protection and
   scientific research, and China is implementing a strategy of
   innovation-driven development. This represents broad prospects for our
   cooperation in science, technology and innovation.
   We shall make good use of the Research and Innovation Partnership Fund
   set up to facilitate high-standard development projects and research
   findings, with a view to providing a strong support for the development
   of our two countries.
   China-UK cooperation is not limited to the economic field: we also need
   to strengthen people-to-people exchanges.
   The British culture values scientific thinking, good reasoning and
   accommodation of others, while it is China' s tradition to emphasize
   openness, inclusiveness and mutual learning. China and the UK, though
   thousands of miles apart, are actually "distant neighbors" .
   Our respective science and technology, culture and arts, as well as
   academic thinking, each has its own proud tradition, and has been a
   source of mutual inspiration.
   Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet is popular in China, while The Peony
   Pavilion, composed by the Chinese writer Tang Xianzu of the Ming
   Dynasty, has been put on stage here in the UK.
   The British use English as their mother tongue, while in China 300
   million Chinese are learning English, more than most of the countries
   in the world.
   And although China was where tea was first discovered, the British
   drink more tea than most people in the world.
   Right now, over 130,000 Chinese students are studying in the UK,
   accounting for half of the number in all EU countries. China and the UK
   need to deepen their cultural and people-to-people exchanges, and step
   up cooperation in education and culture.
   The UK government has agreed to simplify visa application for Chinese
   citizens. This means more Chinese people will be able to visit or come
   to work in the UK, injecting more vitality to the UK economy.
   Both the UK and China are great nations. We both have a time-honored
   history and each has created a splendid past. Now, both countries are
   determined to ride the tide of the times and seek new changes.
   As the English poet Percy Bysshe Shelley wrote: "Man cannot make
   occasions, but he may seize those that offer."
   Similarly, the famous Chinese writer, Su Shi of the Song Dynasty,
   remarked that: "When your turn comes, seize it; and when opportunity
   knocks at the door, grab it, or it will slip away."
   China and the UK, the East and the West, developing countries and
   developed ones alike, should seize opportunities, meet challenges
   together, and build a better world through inclusive development.
   Source: Xinhuanet [95]here (21.06.14).
   #
   #
   #
   [96]Is the UK government British?
   The UK Prime Minister, David Cameron, has said that he wants the Magna
   Carta (sealed in June 1215) to be taught to children of all backgrounds
   as part of his fightback against extremism.
   Clause 39 of the Magna Carta reads: "No free man shall be seized or
   imprisoned, or stripped of his rights or possessions, or outlawed or
   exiled, or deprived of his standing in any other way, nor will we
   proceed with force against him, or send others to do so except by the
   lawful judgment of his equals or by the law of the land."
   Perhaps Mr Cameron should first consider a revision class on the
   principles of the Magna Carta for his UK government cabinet members who
   promote secret trials, the use of secret evidence and terrorism
   preventative investigation measures, and the deprivation of the
   citizenship of British nationals while abroad, all of which appear to
   flagrantly violate clause 39.
   It would seem that many in government have also forgotten what it means
   to be British.
   Source: Fahad Ansari letter in the Guardian (London) [97]here
   (16.06.14). UK Establishment anti-Muslim background [98]here
   (20.06.14), [99]here (19.06.14) and [100]here (18.06.14).
   #
   #
   #

     [101]#DC [102]#corporation [103]#FalseFlags: Was [104]#SandyHook
     just a media [105]#PsyOps [106]#drill with no children killed at
     all? [107]http://t.co/FpV9ohpscw [108]#1ab [109]#SCOTUS
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [110]June 15, 2014

     [111]#DC [112]#corporation: [113]#Why has [114]#feeding the
     [115]#homeless been [116]#criminalised in 33 [117]#US [118]#cities?
     [119]http://t.co/WxEqWu9SR7 [120]#1ab [121]#TeamJesus [122]#Pontifex
     [123]#1D
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [124]June 14, 2014

   #
   #
   Picture: Aftermath of gas tanker explosion in DRC Congo - Friday 2nd
   July 2010.
   [125]http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-june-10-2014-emergency-m
   eetings-of-western-elite-fail-to-break-financial-deadlock-us-implosion-
   now-looms/
   Picture: Putin (Russia) + Xi Jinping (China) + Rouhani (Iran).
   [126]http://www.zerohedge.com/print/news/2014-06-05/nirp-has-arrived-eu
   rope-officially-enters-monetary-twilight-zone
   Picture: EuroZone meltdown. Élites are bad. Brussels is the élite of
   élites.
   [127]http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/may/30/denamrk-cotes-meat-ba
   lls-party-ordinary-dpp
   #
   #
   #

     [128]#Debt: With the global [129]#currency resets imminent, does the
     [130]#BoE now regret its 1999 -2002 [131]#firesale of the [132]#UK
     [133]#gold [134]#reserves? [135]#1ab [136]#AskBoE
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [137]May 30, 2014

   #
   #
   #
   [138]The fraught relationship between sovereign states and 'free'
   markets - a UK perspective
   The epic financial crash of 2008-2009 made the hitherto prevailing
   ideology of freewheeling capitalism - governments get out of the way
   and leave it all to the markets - untenable.
   In the quarter-century of managed capitalism from 1948-1973, UK income
   growth per capita grew at 2.4% a year. Britain broadly paid its way in
   the world in traded goods; unemployment averaged 2% and there were no
   banking crashes to speak of.
   Under Margaret Thatcher's deregulated capitalism from 1980-2007, income
   growth was just 1.7%; competitiveness sharply worsened until today
   Britain is trading goods at a £110bn deficit a year; unemployment is
   still nearly 7%, and it ended with the most catastrophic
   financial-economic crash for a century. Who wants to stick with such a
   failed model?
   It's not as though wholesale privatisation and deregulation have worked
   well. 'Light' regulation has led to Libor-rigging, money-laundering,
   tax avoidance on an industrial scale, a deeply unbalanced economy that
   has hollowed out Britain's industrial base, and an almost daily cascade
   of corporate scandals.
   Nor have the new semi-monopolistic private oligarchs distinguished
   themselves. G4S, Serco, A4E and Atos have all been disgraced: squeezing
   out profit and not serving the public interest. This has been the
   general model. And several major private sectors of the economy -
   notably energy, housing, rail, pensions, and banking - have manifestly
   failed badly.
   The issue is not state or markets. The task is to find a better way to
   enable both to play complementary rôles in optimising market
   development with the wider national interest; a model which all the
   most successful economies have followed since the Second World War.
   Source: Michael Meacher in the Guardian (London) [139]here (18.05.14).
   Picture: BigPharma. FatPharma. Statins - the honey in the
   poison-flower.
   [140]http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007/08/statins-honey-in-poiso
   n-flower.html
   ##
   Picture: The unwisdom of belief.
   [141]https://medium.com/p/93afa170f904
   ##

     [142]#Russia will begin to [143]#colonise the [144]#Moon by 2030,
     starting 1st stage of project in 2016. [145]http://t.co/THruIviiUG
     [146]#1ab [147]#BRICS [148]#G20 [149]#astronomy
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [150]May 9, 2014

     [151]#EU: Did [152]#London & [153]#Zurich ship 40,000 tonnes of
     [154]#stolen [155]#gold to [156]#Asia to create the [157]#EUR
     [158]#banking [159]#cartel? [160]http://t.co/L5Vo9TGBRF [161]#1ab
     [162]#Au
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [163]May 9, 2014

     [164]#DC [165]#corporation: [166]#Benghazi [167]#FalseFlag:
     [168]#Kerry [169]#runs [170]#away from [171]#US [172]#Congress
     [173]#subpoena. [174]http://t.co/rbEl48MzcC [175]#1ab [176]#House
     [177]#WH [178]#SCOTUS [179]#G20
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [180]May 7, 2014

   #
   #
   # Picture: US embassy protests. Manila. Philippines. Tuesday 22nd April
   2014.
   [181]http://www.sunstar.com.ph/breaking-news/2014/04/23/anti-obama-prot
   esters-clash-manila-police-339424
   #
   #
   [182]Malaysia Airlines MH370: The fin de siècle BlackOps stunt which
   couldn't be concealed.
   On Saturday 8th March 2014, a scheduled Boeing 777-200ER international
   passenger flight from Kuala Lumpur International Airport (Malaysia) to
   Beijing Capital International Airport (China) took off. Less than half
   an hour later it had 'gone missing'. The plane was never found.
   That was the public script contrived for mainstream media consumption.
   The aircraft was carrying 12 Malaysian crew members and 227 passengers
   from 14 different nations. 154 were Chinese.
   It is still too early for regular members of the general public to take
   anything more than a provisional view about the fate of the plane, but
   one thing is manifestly clear. With pantotal global surveillance, the
   GPS satellite nexus, international military radar, and active passenger
   web comms, the plane's precise location must have been known with
   documented exactitude by the intelligence cadres of all major
   governments within 48 hours. And that location must have been
   cross-checked and confirmed between all relevant international
   agencies.
   Why haven't these major governments been able to talk publicly about
   the incident?
   One possible answer is that a deep-state, corporation-driven terrorist
   group, more powerful than the governments themselves, was involved.
   If the elected governments admitted openly that such a potent organised
   crime syndicate existed, they would have to leave power before their
   next elections. It would be proof positive that they and their
   intelligence-military complexes were not fit for purpose.
   Behind the scenes, and despite frantic efforts at international news
   coordination, no credible cover story could be concocted about MH370
   which would not have been more damaging to those puppet governments
   than the élite unexplained disappearance narrative which was being
   retailed by default.
   In the covert world, there will be a paper trail in existence, and
   there will be an electronic data estate relating to the disappearing.
   But before the major inside leaks and disclosures begin to diffuse out
   from these widely distributed caches, what are the theories currently
   being circulated to explain how the plane disappeared?
   In the global alternative news community, the major assumption is that
   the takeout and disappearing of Malaysia Airlines MH370 was a dying G7
   cartel hit against China, as was the earlier Uighur knifing rampage on
   Saturday 1st March 2014 in Kunming,Yunnan province.
   Similar dying hits were launched against Russia with the Volgograd
   bombings in December 2013, the confected gay boycott of the Sochi
   Winter Olympics (most foreign Heads of Government stayed away), and the
   Nazi-continuum Blackwater/Xe/Academi interference engendering the
   imposed coup in Ukraine (snipers targeting both sides in the demos
   etc).
   These BlackOps were G7-sourced rages against the BRICS machine. China
   is slowly and steadily devaluing the Renminbi against the US dollar
   with (perhaps) 10% down being planned for 2014. She is also,
   increasingly, doing bipartisan deals with other countries in
   Yuan/Renminbi rather than in Dollars or Euros.
   Russia, with its growing energy supply power and its clout in the
   Middle East, is terminating the US petrodollar and the Muslim
   Brotherhood, both of which are G7 Nazi-continuum projects of long
   standing.
   China and Russia are slowly and inexorably backing their currencies
   with accredited and unencumbered gold holdings in preparation for an
   Asia-initiated global currency reset which will not permit the forex
   participation of fiat paper QE currencies such as the US Dollar and the
   Euro.
   That the rogue faction fiat paper banksters in the West are now under
   terminal pressure is evidenced by the lack of deliverable gold in their
   vaults, and the fact that their in-the-know bankers are being suicided
   and assassinated, privately or publicly, at an increasing rate. It's
   even obvious in the MSM and the financial press: the rats are fighting
   in the sack; no loser is to be left standing.
   There is plenty of stuff out in the open, now, for [183]historians of
   the near future to rewrite global history: The Second Fall of Rome. The
   DC private corporation has had its day.
   But what exactly happened to MH370? I list below six of the emergent
   stories. Some of these cross-connect. The first originates from
   Indonesia, the second from the US, the third from Canada, the fourth
   from Russia, the fifth from Iran, and the sixth from Japan.
   (1) The aircraft did not hit the water and landed safely at an unknown
   location. Of all the large aircraft lost at sea there has never been a
   situation where wreckage and/or bodies have not been clearly visible on
   the surface.
   A witness observed a plane flying low over the Maldives. A low flight
   would have kept the aircraft from local radar detection.
   There were said to have been high-status Chinese technicians on the
   flight carrying important drafts of new technology patents, and other
   substantive technical documents and data.
   The aircraft landed in Diego Garcia, possibly escorted by rogue-faction
   US military fighters. Exemplar source [184]here.
   (2) The disappearing of  MH370 was a failed attempt to murder a group
   of major world leaders in The Netherlands, at The Hague Nuclear
   Security Summit in March 2014. The plane was to be used as a nuke.
   On board the aircraft, were twenty scientists with Cosmic Top Secret
   clearances. For some reason, these people had become superfluous to
   needs and required termination. What happened to the plane and its
   occupants is not clear. Exemplar source [185]here.
   It is, perhaps, worth recalling in this latter context, that there are
   thirty nine levels of security clearance above the level of the US
   President: there are thirty nine levels of people more important than
   Barack Obama in the US. On this view, visible politicians in the G7
   banking cartel are simply hired actors who front up in the media for
   deep-state corporate interests. Often these actors are thrown away at
   the next election or are given plausible sinecures.
   (3) MH370 was shot down by a newly unveiled US Navy Laser Weapons
   System (LaWS).
   The location of the downed plane was correctly identified by an admiral
   of the Vietnamese armed forces. An international coverup ensued.
   The motive for the attack was to provide Russia with a warning in the
   form of a decisive demonstration of the LaWS weapons system following
   her activities in and around Ukraine and Crimea. The LaWS attack on
   MH370 was a response to the earlier public test of the Topol missile
   system by the Russian military.
   The MH370 takedown was also a payback to Malaysia for the 2012-2013
   [186]Kuala Lumpur War Crimes Tribunal verdicts against Israel, the US &
   the UK.
   A further major motive was a G7 grab for Malaysian oil, using the MH370
   disappearing as a preliminary threat to get talks moving.
   Also, but subsidiary in motive, twenty employees of [187]Freescale
   Semiconductor Inc of Austin, Texas (US) are said to have been on MH370,
   heading for a conference in Beijing. Several of these employees were
   Chinese nationals. It would be in the commercial interests of the G7
   banking cartel if these people were not to arrive. Exemplar source
   [188]here.
   (4) According to an unnamed Russian intelligence source who spoke to
   the Russian-language Moscow newspaper, Moskovsky Komsomolets, MH370 was
   seen on the ground near Kandahar (Afghanistan), near the Pakistan
   border. This report has never been retracted (in English) by the
   Russian government. Exemplar source [189]here.
   The Kandahar reference may fit in with a larger itinerary. MH370, it
   has been suggested, landed first, secretly, in India; it was then moved
   to Kandahar and then, after much behind-the scenes haggling, to a
   military hangar in Beijing. This story is not clear about where the
   passengers and crew were taken off the plane, though some, again,
   suggest that Diego Garcia may have been a port of call between India
   and Kandahar, or even before India.
   (5) MH370 did not crash in the ocean. If it had, it would have left a
   huge, easily-visible debris field.
   Only a remote-hijacking, fly-by-wire scenario can explain the plane’s
   disappearance.
   The Malaysian government has been given sealed evidence by one or more
   foreign governments concerning the fate of MH370. As a condition of
   receiving that evidence, Malaysia is not allowed to divulge it.
   The secrecy of the information is such that disclosure would have a
   major negative impact of the global economy. All commercial aircraft
   are fitted with electronic backdoors to allow remote-hijacking of the
   MH370 type by élite groups. It is a standard way to remove
   troublemakers. Modern cars are the same. These days, planes or cars can
   be flown or driven remotely like drones or radio-controlled toys.
   If this was generally known, international tourist, business and
   political travel by air would cease, international trade would seize
   up, and large numbers would be knocked off the gross global domestic
   product. This would lead to vast unemployment, austerity and multiple
   revolution.
   Any bright, geeky, motivated teenager with a laptop and a cell phone
   could hack into commercial aircraft fly-by-wire systems. Technologies
   have been patented for protecting these fly-by-wire systems, for
   example: US Patent #8,391,493. This is said to have been 'disappeared'
   from Patent Office records for élite management purposes. Exemplar
   source [190]here.
   (6) The plane was remotely hijacked by electronic code insinuations
   into the onboard computer flight plan and, in a covert step-by-step
   progression over several days, was flown via Diego Garcia, Israel and
   Florida to the Netherlands.
   The original passengers and crew were removed at Diego Garcia.
   It is reported that a cloned version of the plane was photographed at
   Tel Aviv airport (picture [191]here).
   At a rogue DC corporation military facility in Florida (US), the
   aircraft was loaded with a nuclear weapon.
   The plane was then flown towards the Netherlands where it was used as a
   threat against [192]world leaders gathering for the Nuclear Security
   Summit in The Hague on Monday 24th and Tuesday 25th March 2014. The
   plane was stopped by the Dutch airforce. Exemplar source [193]here.
   Notice, incidentally, that as far as Russia was concerned, Sergei
   Lavrov the Foreign Minister attended the Netherlands summit, but
   President Vladimir Putin did not. Ostensibly, Putin stayed in Moscow to
   deal with the developing Crimea and Ukraine situations.
   In the context of the narratives cited above, the continuing search for
   MH370 debris using submarine drones around western Australian waters in
   the southern Indian Ocean may just be cynical establishment distraction
   and obfuscation. If so, this search will be maintained until the black
   box is said to have gone quiet, and sheeple news management can move on
   in preparation for the next faked-up, war-on-terror, false flag attack.
   AB note: This Malaysia Airlines MH370 story is now being updated on a
   separate page [194]here.
   Picture: Other worlds. Other dimensions. Other spiritualities. #1ab
   [195]http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-CWX8gseaxLM/U1KPJQuCGII/AAAAAAAAGco/q2G-
   2HEOR8s/s1600/Other+worlds.+Other+dimensions.+Other+spiritualities.+%23
   1ab+(2).jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   Picture: What is the Higher Evolution? Angels, Gods, Genies, ETs,
   Aliens.
   [196]https://medium.com/p/4766ad75c02c
   Picture: The Vrillon Transmission. Extraterrestrial TV hijack. UK; Nov
   1977.
   [197]http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007/08/extraterrestrial-telev
   ision-hijack.html
   Picture: The Future Historians' List. Significant names in G7 banking
   collapse.
   [198]http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/the-future-historians-
   list.html

     [199]#Geopolitics: Has [200]#Russia just [201]#offered the
     [202]#west of [203]#Ukraine to [204]#Poland?
     [205]http://t.co/4Q56P6X3xm [206]#1ab [207]#fx [208]#forex
     [209]#gold [210]#G20 [211]#EU [212]#UN [213]#ForSale
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [214]April 8, 2014

     [215]#DC [216]#corporation: How much longer will the [217]#Pentagon
     [218]#want to prop-up the [219]#G7 [220]#banking [221]#cartel?
     [222]http://t.co/uhMh2608IO [223]#1ab [224]#SCOTUS [225]#G20
     [226]#fx
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [227]April 7, 2014

   #
   Picture: Female, Male or What? Has the third human sex already arrived?
   [228]https://medium.com/p/804d6cd552da
   #
   Picture: Great Grimsby UK. GO HOME SKINT CHANNEL 4.
   [229]http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/apr/01/grimsby-chann
   el-4-skint-documentary-benefits-street
   # Picture: Greater Periwinkle 1. Vinca major . Apocynaceae.
   [230]http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-V3iUVZHGgH0/UzwTS9zl9_I/AAAAAAAAGXg/ViWK
   e1VwPcA/s1600/Greater+Periwinkle+2.+Vinca+major+.+Apocynaceae.+%231ab.j
   pg?SSImageQuality=Full
   Greater Periwinkle - Vinca major (Apocynaceae).  In April, this is
   flowering in the wild all over Northern Europe and elsewhere.
   The generic name Vinca is from the Latin 'vincire', meaning to bind
   about or fetter, to encircle, to confine, to restrain, or to envelop.
   The name is said to be based on its trailing, connecting, perennial
   habit. In England, the plant has a number of local names including
   Bachelor's Buttons in Somerset, and Dicky Dilver in Suffolk.
   In traditional English herb lore, the leaves of the Periwinkle are
   stuffed into a couple's mattress to enhance fidelity, love, passion and
   harmony. Some say its active ingredients may be useful in love potions.
   In the sixteenth century, 'The Book of Secrets of Albertus Magnus: Of
   the Virtues of Herbs, Stones, and Certain Beasts' spoke of the power of
   the Periwinkle to produce love between a man and his wife. It must be
   powdered and mixed with leeks and earthworms and then added to the
   couple’s meals.
   More recently it has been used in herbal medicine as an astringent and
   tonic, in menorrhagia, in haemorrhages, and also as a laxative and
   gargle. Made into an ointment, it can be useful for piles and
   inflammatory conditions of the skin.
   The leaves and seeds of the Periwinkle contain vincamine, a vinpocetine
   precursor, which is used medicinally to enhance memory in aging and
   forgetful minds.
   Other pictures of the Greater Periwinkle can be seen [231]here,
   [232]here, [233]here and [234]here. The best academic Flora reference
   is probably [235]C.A.Stace NFBI 3 (2011): 550.
   #
   # #

     [236]#Research call: Is this a [237]#BlackOps [238]#insectiform
     [239]#assassination [240]#drone? [241]http://t.co/3dGjodRLrn
     [242]#1ab [243]#Montreal [244]#fx [245]#1D
     [246]pic.twitter.com/LqgTeyMzU8
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [247]March 27, 2014

   # #
     Picture: The Ten or Eleven Commandments
   [248]https://medium.com/p/c9701fc023b1

     [249]#Palestine: Rabbi Yisroel Dovid [250]#Weiss: [251]#Torah does
     not permit us to [252]#oppress other [253]#people or [254]#steal the
     [255]#land. [256]http://t.co/9tZOdAbeRo [257]#1ab
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [258]March 24, 2014

   # #

     [259]#Ukraine [260]#debt: [261]#Kyiv owes [262]#Moscow $16 billion
     [263]http://t.co/COptRDUfSp [264]#1ab [265]#fx [266]#forex
     [267]#gold [268]#metals [269]#oil [270]#gas [271]#G20 [272]#EU
     [273]#Odesa [274]#Lviv [275]#Kharkov
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [276]March 24, 2014

   # #
   Picture: Putin: Crimea has always been an inseparable part of Russia.
   [277]http://eng.kremlin.ru/news/6889
   Picture: Life's not a fairytale. Prepare for real life, Ukraine. EU.
   ECB. IMF.
   [278]http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-TOlHcewYVrA/UxQqnrDl8YI/AAAAAAAAGWA/tFxN
   ZnFsbGU/s1600/Don%27t+worry,+Ukraine.+Your+saviours+are+coming+from+the
   +West.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   Picture: Ukraine. Cossacks outside Crimean parliament. Friday 28th Feb
   2014.
   [279]http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-mar-3-2014-secret-cabal-
   surrender-negotiations-continue-as-their-ukraine-bluff-is-called-after-
   an-exchange-of-nuclear-threats/
   #
   [280]Edward Snowden: I know. I sat at that desk. I typed in the names.
   Today, an ordinary person can't pick up the phone, email a friend or
   order a book without comprehensive records of their activities being
   created, archived, and analysed by people with the authority to put you
   in jail or worse.
   I know: I sat at that desk. I typed in the names.
   When we know we're being watched, we impose restraints on our behaviour
   – even clearly innocent activities – just as surely as if we were
   ordered to do so.
   The mass surveillance systems of today, systems that pre-emptively
   automate the indiscriminate seizure of private records, constitute a
   sort of surveillance time-machine; a machine that simply cannot operate
   without violating our liberty on the broadest scale.
   And it permits governments to go back and scrutinise every decision
   you've ever made, every friend you've ever spoken to, and derive
   suspicion from an innocent life. Even a well-intentioned mistake can
   turn a life upside down.
   To preserve our free societies, we have to defend not just against
   distant enemies, but against dangerous policies at home.
   If we allow scarce resources to be squandered on surveillance
   programmes that violate the very rights they purport to defend, we
   haven't protected our liberty at all: we have paid to lose it.
   Edward Snowden
   Source [281]here (21.02.14).
   Picture - Is the reunification of the Korean Peninsula imminent? DPRK.
   Seoul.
   [282]http://www.chinadailyasia.com/news/2014-02/21/content_15119683.htm
   l
   #
   #

     [283]#Ukraine: More on [284]#EU & [285]#US [286]#agents
     [287]#funding the [288]#subversion in [289]#Kyiv.
     [290]http://t.co/MjTLRF2PPL [291]#1ab [292]#Odesa [293]#Lviv
     [294]#Kharkiv [295]#debt [296]#Constitution
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [297]February 19, 2014

   #
   Picture: Aaron Swartz 1986-2013. There is no justice in following
   unjust laws.
   [298]http://rt.com/news/activists-internet-protests-fight-440/
   # #
   Picture: Bosnia anti-government protests. February 2014.
   [299]http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-YMGMzfaJqQg/UvSvCzksJII/AAAAAAAAGUI/Kq9M
   Eisxlc8/s1600/Bosnia+protests.+February+2014.+%231ab+(2).jpg?SSImageQua
   lity=Full
   Picture: Spying Birds. Angry Birds. Unlawful spying by the US NSA.
   [300]http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-_gH7q8_60b0/UvRwjPDdOyI/AAAAAAAAGTw/VwyR
   JAnkPn8/s1600/RAF+Menwith+Hill,+North+Yorkshire,+England,+UK.+US+NSA+ma
   ss+surveillance+facility.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   [301]Surveillance and Privacy: Edward Snowden's interview on German TV
   At the beginning of 2014, the American patriot and whistleblower,
   Edward Snowden, gave an interview to Hubert Seifel in Moscow. It was
   broadcast on the German public television channel ARD
   (Arbeitsgemeinschaft der öffentlich-rechtlichen Rundfunkanstalten der
   Bundesrepublik Deutschland). ARD is a consortium of public broadcasters
   in Germany, founded in 1950.
   On Monday 3rd February 2014 a full transcript in English of that
   interview was released on the web. The text is as follows:
   Q: Mr Snowden, did you sleep well the last couple of nights because I
   was reading that you asked for a kind of police protection? Are there
   any threats?
   A: There are significant threats, but I sleep very well. There was an
   article that came out in an online outlet called BuzzFeed where they
   interviewed officials from the Pentagon, from the National Security
   Agency and they gave them anonymity to be able to say what they want
   and what they told the reporter was that they wanted to murder me.
   These individuals - and these are acting government officials - they
   said they would be happy, they would love to put a bullet in my head,
   to poison me as I was returning from the grocery store, and have me die
   in the shower.
   Q: But fortunately you are still alive with us.
   A: Right, but I'm still alive and I don't lose sleep because I’ve done
   what I feel I needed to do. It was the right thing to do and I’m not
   going to be afraid.
   Q: "The greatest fear I have", and I quote you, "regarding the
   disclosures is nothing will change." That was one of your greatest
   concerns at the time but in the meantime there is a vivid discussion
   about the situation with the NSA; not only in America but also in
   Germany and in Brazil and President Obama was forced to go public and
   to justify what the NSA was doing on legal grounds.
   A: What we saw initially in response to the revelations was sort of a
   circling of the wagons of government around the National Security
   Agency. Instead of circling around the public and protecting their
   rights, the political class circled around the security state and
   protected their rights.
   What’s interesting is though that was the initial response, since then
   we’ve seen a softening. We’ve seen the President acknowledge that when
   he first said "We’ve drawn the right balance. There are no abuses,"
   we’ve seen him and his officials admit that there have been abuses.
   There have been thousands of violations of the National Security Agency
   and other agencies and authorities every single year.
   Q: Is the speech of Obama (recently) the beginning of a serious
   regulation?
   A: It was clear from the President’s speech that he wanted to make
   minor changes to preserve authorities that we don’t need. The President
   created a review board from officials that were personal friends, from
   national security insiders, former Deputy of the CIA, people who had
   every incentive to be soft on these programs and to see them in the
   best possible light. But what they found was that these programs have
   no value. They’ve never stopped a terrorist attack in the United States
   and they have marginal utility at best for other things.
   The only thing that the Section 215 phone metadata program, actually
   it’s a broader metadata program of bulk collection - bulk collection
   means mass surveillance - program was in stopping or detecting $8.500
   wire transfer from a cab driver in California and it’s this kind of
   review where insiders go; we don’t need these programs. These programs
   don’t make us safe. They take a tremendous amount of resources to run
   and they offer us no value. They go "we can modify these." The National
   Security Agency operates under the President’s executive authority
   alone. He can end or modify or direct a change of their policies at any
   time.
   Q: For the first time President Obama did concede that the NSA collects
   and stores trillions of data.
   A: Every time you pick up the phone, dial a number, write an email,
   make a purchase, travel on the bus carrying a cell phone, swipe a card
   somewhere, you leave a trace and the government has decided that it’s a
   good idea to collect it all. Everything. Even if you’ve never been
   suspected of any crime. Traditionally, the government would identify a
   suspect, they would go to a judge, they would say we suspect he’s
   committed this crime. They would get a warrant and then they would be
   able to use the totality of their powers in pursuit of the
   investigation. Nowadays, what we see is they want to apply the totality
   of their powers in advance - prior to an investigation.
   Q: You started this debate. Edward Snowden is, in the meantime, a
   household name for the whistleblower in the age of the Internet. You
   were working until last summer for the NSA and during this time you
   secretly collected thousands of confidential documents. What was the
   decisive moment? Or was there a long period of time or something
   happening? Why did you do this?
   A: I would say sort of the breaking point is seeing the Director of
   National Intelligence, James Clapper, directly lie under oath to
   Congress. There’s no saving an intelligence community that believes it
   can lie to the public and the legislators who need to be able to trust
   it and regulate its actions. Seeing that really meant for me there was
   no going back. Beyond that, it was the creeping realization that no one
   else was going to do this. The public had a right to know about these
   programs.
   The public had a right to know that which the government is doing in
   its name, and that which the government is doing against the public.
   But neither of these things we were allowed to discuss. Even the wider
   body of our elected representatives were prohibited from knowing or
   discussing these programs and that’s a dangerous thing. The only review
   we had was from a secret court, the FISA Court, which is a sort of
   rubber stamp authority
   When you are on the inside and you go into work everyday and you sit
   down at the desk and you realize the power you have - you can wire tap
   the President of the United States, you can wire tap a Federal Judge -
   and if you do it carefully no one will ever know because the only way
   the NSA discovers abuses are from self-reporting.
   Q: We’re not talking only of the NSA as far as this is concerned, there
   is a multilateral agreement for co-operation among the services and
   this alliance of intelligence operations is known as the Five Eyes.
   What agencies and countries belong to this alliance and what is its
   purpose?
   A: The Five Eyes alliance is sort of an artifact of the post-World War
   II era where the Anglophone countries are the major powers banded
   together to sort of co-operate and share the costs of intelligence
   gathering infrastructure.
   So we have the UK’s GCHQ, we have the US NSA, we have Canada’s C-Sec,
   we have the Australian Signals Intelligence Directorate, and we have
   New Zealand’s DSD. What the result of this was over decades and decades
   was a sort of a supra-national intelligence organization that doesn’t
   answer to the laws of its own countries.
   Q: In many countries, as in America too, the agencies like the NSA are
   not allowed to spy within their own borders on their own people. So the
   Brits, for example, they can spy on everybody but the Brits, but the
   NSA can conduct surveillance in England. So in the very end they could
   exchange their data and they would be strictly following the law.
   A: If you ask the governments about this directly they would deny it
   and point to policy agreements between the members of the Five Eyes
   saying that they won’t spy on each other’s citizens, but there are a
   couple of key points there. One is that the way they define spying is
   not the collection of data. The GCHQ is collecting an incredible amount
   of data on British Citizens just as the National Security Agency is
   gathering enormous amounts of data on US citizens. What they are saying
   is that they will not then target people within that data. They won’t
   look for UK citizens or British citizens.
   In addition, the policy agreements between them that say British won’t
   target US citizens, US won’t target British citizens, are not legally
   binding. The actual memorandums of agreement state specifically on that
   that they are not intended to put legal restriction on any government.
   They are policy agreements that can be deviated from or broken at any
   time. So if they want to on a British citizen they can spy on a British
   citizen and then they can even share that data with the British
   government that is itself forbidden from spying on UK citizens.
   So there is a sort of a trading dynamic there but it’s not, it’s not
   open. It’s more of a nudge and wink and beyond that the key is to
   remember the surveillance and the abuse doesn’t occur when people look
   at the data; it occurs when people gather the data in the first place.
   Q: How narrow is the co-operation of the German Secret Service BND with
   the NSA and with the Five Eyes?
   A: I would describe it as intimate. As a matter of fact, the first way
   I described it in our written interview was that the German Services
   and the US Services are in bed together. They not only share
   information, the reporting of results from intelligence, but they
   actually share the tools and the infrastructure; they work together
   against joint targets in services and there’s a lot of danger in this.
   One of the major programs that faces abuse in the National Security
   Agency is what’s called "XKeyscore." It’s a front-end search engine
   that allows them to look through all of the records they collect
   worldwide every day.
   Q: What could you do if you would sit so to speak in their place with
   this kind of instrument?
   A: You could read anyone’s e-mail in the world. Anybody you’ve got an
   email address for, any website you can watch traffic to and from it.
   Any computer that an individual sits at you can watch it. Any laptop
   that you’re tracking you can follow it as it moves from place to place
   throughout the world. It’s a one-stop shop for access to the NSA’s
   information. And what’s more, you can tag individuals using
   "XKeyscore."
   Where let’s say I saw you once and I thought what you were doing was
   interesting or you just have access that’s interesting to me, let’s say
   you work at a major German corporation and I want access to that
   network. I can track your username on a website on a form somewhere. I
   can track your real name. I can track associations with your friends
   and I can build what’s called a fingerprint, which is network activity
   unique to you which means anywhere you go in the world, anywhere you
   try to sort of hide your online presence - hide your identity - the NSA
   can find you and anyone who’s allowed to use this, or who the NSA
   shares their software with, can do the same thing. Germany is one of
   the countries that has access to "XKeyscore."
   Q: This sounds rather frightening. The question is does the BND deliver
   data of Germans to the NSA?
   A: Whether the BND does it directly or knowingly, the NSA gets German
   data.  Whether it’s provided, I can’t speak to until it’s been reported
   because it would be classified, and I prefer that journalists make the
   distinctions and the decisions about what is public interest and what
   should be published.
   However, it’s no secret that every country in the world has the data of
   their citizens in the NSA. Millions and millions and millions of data
   connections from Germans going about their daily lives, talking on
   their cell phones, sending SMS messages, visiting websites, buying
   things online. All of this ends up at the NSA and it’s reasonable to
   suspect that the BND may be aware of it in some capacity. Now whether
   or not they actively provide the information, I should not say.
   Q: The BND basically argues if we do this, we do this accidentally,
   actually, and our filter didn’t work.
   A: Right. So the kind of things that they’re discussing there are two
   things: They’re talking about filtering of ingest, which means when the
   NSA puts a secret server in a German telecommunications provider, or
   they hack a German router, and they divert the traffic in a manner that
   lets them search through things, they’re saying "if I see what I think
   is a German talking to another German, I’ll drop it." But how do you
   know?
   You could say, "Well, these people are speaking the German language.
   This IP address seems to be from a German company to another German
   company." But that’s not accurate and they wouldn’t dump all of that
   traffic because they’ll get people who are targets of interest who are
   actively in Germany using German communications.
   So realistically, what’s happening is when they say there’s no spying
   on Germans, they don’t mean that German data isn’t being gathered. They
   don’t mean that records aren’t being taken or stolen. What they mean is
   that they’re not intentionally searching for German citizens. And
   that’s sort of a fingers-crossed-behind-the-back promise. It’s not
   reliable.
   Q: What about other European countries like Norway and Sweden, for
   example, because we have a lot of, I think, underwater cables going
   through the Baltic Sea?
   A: So this is sort of an expansion of the same idea. If the NSA isn’t
   collecting information on German citizens in Germany, are they as soon
   as it leaves German borders? And the answer is yes. Any single
   communication that transits the internet, the NSA may intercept at
   multiple points. They might see it in Germany, they might see it in
   Sweden, they might see it in Norway or Finland, they might see it in
   Britain, and they might see it in the United States. Any single one of
   these places that a German communication crosses, it’ll be ingested and
   added to the database.
   Q: So let’s come to our southern European neighbours then. What about
   Italy? What about France? What about Spain?
   A: It’s the same deal worldwide.
   Q: Does the NSA spy on Siemens, on Mercedes, on other successful German
   companies, for example, to prevail, to have the advantage of knowing
   what is going on in a scientific and economic world?
   A: I don’t want to pre-empt the editorial decisions of journalists, but
   what I will say is there’s no question that the US is engaged in
   economic spying.
   If there’s information at Siemens that they think would be beneficial
   to the national interests - not the national security of the United
   States - they’ll go after that information and they’ll take it.
   Q: There is this old saying "you do whatever you can do," so the NSA is
   doing whatever is technically possible.
   A: This is something that the President touched on last year where he
   said that just because we can do something, and this was in relation to
   tapping Angela Merkel’s phone, just because we can do something doesn’t
   mean that we should. And that’s exactly what’s happened. The
   technological capabilities that have been provided, because of sort of
   weak security standards in internet protocols and cellular
   communications networks, have meant that intelligence services can
   create systems that see everything.
   Q: Nothing annoyed the German government more than the fact that the
   NSA tapped the private phone of the German Chancellor Merkel over the
   last 10 years. Obviously, suddenly this invisible surveillance was
   connected with a known face, and was not connected with a kind of
   watery shady terrorist background. Obama now promised to stop snooping
   on Merkel, which raises the question: did the NSA tape already previous
   governments in Germany - previous chancellors - and when did they do
   that and how long did they do this for?
   A: This is a particularly difficult question for me to answer because
   there’s information that I very strongly believe is in the public
   interest. However, as I’ve said before, I prefer for journalists to
   make those decisions in advance, review the material themselves and
   decide whether or not the public value of this information outweighs
   the sort of reputational cost to the officials that ordered the
   surveillance.
   What I can say is we know Angela Merkel was monitored by the National
   Security Agency. The question is how reasonable is it to assume that
   she is the only German official that was monitored? How reasonable is
   it to believe that she’s the only prominent German face who the
   National Security Agency was watching? I would suggest it seems
   unreasonable that if anyone was concerned about the intentions of
   German leadership that they would only watch Merkel and not her aides.
   Not other prominent officials. Not heads of ministries or even local
   government officials.
   Q: How does a young man from Elizabeth City in North Carolina, 30 years
   old, get in such a position in such a sensitive area?
   A: That’s a very difficult question to answer. In general, I would say
   it highlights the dangers of privatizing government functions. I worked
   previously as an actual staff officer, a government employee for the
   Central Intelligence Agency, but I’ve also served much more frequently
   as a contractor in a private capacity.
   What that means is you have private for-profit companies doing
   inherently governmental work like targeted espionage, surveillance,
   compromising foreign systems. And anyone who has the skills who can
   convince a private company that they have the qualifications to do so,
   will be empowered by the government to do that and there’s very little
   oversight. There’s very little review.
   Q: Have you been one of these classical computer kids sitting red-eyed
   during the night in the age of 12/15 and your father was knocking on
   your door and saying, "Switch off the light. It’s getting late now"?
   Did you get your computer skills from that side? When did you get your
   first computer?
   A: Right. I definitely have had, shall we say, a deep informal
   education in computers and electronic technology. They’ve always been
   fascinating and interesting to me. The characterization of having your
   parents telling you to go to bed, I would say, is fair.
   Q: If one looks to the little public data of your life, one discovers
   that you obviously wanted to join in May 2004 the Special Forces to
   fight in Iraq. What did motivate you at the time? You know, Special
   Forces, looking at you in the very moment, means grim fighting and it
   means probably killing. And did you ever get to Iraq?
   A: No, I didn’t get to Iraq. One of the interesting things about the
   Special Forces is that they’re not actually intended for direct combat.
   They’re what’s referred to as a force multiplier. They’re inserted
   behind enemy lines. It’s a squad that has a number of different
   specialties in it, and they teach and enable the local population to
   resist or to support US forces in a way that allows the local
   population a chance to help determine their own destiny, and I felt
   that was an inherently noble thing at the time. In hindsight, some of
   the reasons that we went into Iraq were not well-founded and I think
   did a disservice to everyone involved.
   Q: What happened to your adventure then? Did you stay long with them or
   what happened to you?
   A: No, I broke my legs when I was in training and was discharged.
   Q: So it was a short adventure in other words?
   A: It was a short adventure.
   Q: In 2007 the CIA stationed you with a diplomatic cover in Geneva in
   Switzerland. Why did you join the CIA by the way?
   A: I don’t think I can actually answer that one.
   Q: Okay, if it’s what you have been doing there forget it, but why did
   you join the CIA?
   A: In many ways, I think it’s a continuation of trying to do everything
   I could to prosecute the public good in the most effective way, and
   it’s in-line with the rest of my government service where I tried to
   use my technical skills in the most difficult positions I could find in
   the world, and the CIA offered that.
   Q: If we go back, Special Forces, CIA, NSA… it’s not actually in the
   description of a human rights activist, or somebody who becomes a
   whistleblower after this. What happened to you?
   A: I think it tells a story, and that’s no matter how deeply an
   individual is embedded in the government, no matter how faithful to the
   government they are, no matter how strongly they believe in the causes
   of their government, as I did during the Iraq war, people can learn.
   People can discover the line between appropriate government behaviour
   and actual wrongdoing, and I think it became clear to me that that line
   had been crossed.
   Q: You worked for the NSA through a private contractor with the name
   Booz Allen Hamilton, one of the big ones in the business. What is the
   advantage for the US Government or the CIA to work through a private
   contractor to outsource a central government function?
   A: The contracting culture of the national security community in the
   United States is a complex topic. It’s driven by a number of interests,
   between primarily limiting the number of direct government employees,
   at the same time as keeping lobbying groups in Congress, typically from
   very well-funded businesses such as Booz Allen Hamilton.
   The problem there is you end up in a situation where government
   policies are being influenced by private corporations who have
   interests that are completely divorced from the public good in mind.
   The result of that is what we saw at Booz Allen Hamilton, where you
   have private individuals who have access to what the government alleges
   were millions and millions of records that they could walk out the door
   with at any time with no accountability, no oversight, no auditing. The
   government didn’t even know they were gone.
   Q: At the very end you ended up in Russia. Many of the intelligence
   communities suspect you made a deal, classified material for asylum
   here in Russia.
   A: The Chief of the Task Force investigating me as recently as December
   said that their investigation had turned up no evidence or indications
   at all that I had any outside help or contact, or had made a deal of
   any kind to accomplish my mission. I worked alone. I didn’t need
   anybody’s help.
   I don’t have any ties to foreign governments. I’m not a spy for Russia
   or China or any other country for that matter. If I am a traitor, who
   did I betray? I gave all of my information to the American public, to
   American journalists who are reporting on American issues. If they see
   that as treason, I think people really need to consider who do they
   think they’re working for? The public is supposed to be their boss, not
   their enemy. Beyond that, as far as my personal safety, I’ll never be
   fully safe until these systems have changed.
   Q: After your revelations, none of the European countries really
   offered you asylum. Where did you apply in Europe for asylum?
   A: I can’t remember the list of countries with any specificity because
   there were many of them, but France & Germany were definitely in there,
   as was the UK.  A number of European countries. All of whom,
   unfortunately, felt that doing the right thing was less important than
   supporting US political concerns.
   Q: One reaction to the NSA snooping is, in the very moment, that
   countries like Germany are thinking to create national Internets in an
   attempt to force Internet companies to keep their data in their own
   country. Does this work?
   A: It’s not gonna stop the NSA. Let’s put it that way. The NSA goes
   where the data is. If the NSA can pull text messages out of
   telecommunication networks in China, they can probably manage to get
   Facebook messages out of Germany. Ultimately, the solution to that is
   not to try to stick everything in a walled  garden, although that does
   raise the level of sophistication and complexity of taking the
   information. It’s also much better simply to secure the information
   internationally against everyone, rather than playing "let’s move the
   data". Moving the data isn’t fixing the problem; securing the data is
   the problem.
   Q: President Obama in the very moment obviously doesn’t care too much
   about the message of the leak. And together with the NSA, they do care
   very much more about catching the messenger in that context. Obama
   asked the Russian president several times to extradite you, but Putin
   did not. It looks that you will stay for the rest of your life,
   probably in Russia. How do you feel about Russia in that context and is
   there a solution to this problem?
   A: I think it’s becoming increasingly clear that these leaks didn’t
   cause harm. In fact, they served the public good. Because of that, I
   think it will be very difficult to maintain sort of an ongoing campaign
   of persecution against someone who the public agrees serves the public
   interest.
   Q: The New York Times wrote a very long comment and demanded clemency
   for you. The headline "Edward Snowden Whistleblower" and I quote from
   that: "The public learned in great detail how the agency has extended
   its mandate and abused its authority." And the New York Times closes:
   "President Obama should tell his aides to begin finding a way to end Mr
   Snowden’s vilification and give him an incentive to return home." Did
   you get a call, in-between, from the White House?
   A: I’ve never received a call from the White House and I am not waiting
   by the phone. But I would welcome the opportunity to talk about how we
   can bring this to a conclusion that serves the interest of all parties.
   I think it’s clear there are times where what is lawful is distinct
   from what is rightful. There are times throughout history, and it
   doesn’t take long for either an American or a German to think about
   times in the history of their country, where the law provided the
   government to do things which were not right.
   Q: President Obama obviously is, in the very moment, not quite
   convinced of that because he said that you are charged with three
   felonies and I quote: "If you, Edward Snowden, believe in what you did
   you should go back to America, appear before the court with a lawyer,
   and make your case." Is this the solution?
   A: It’s interesting because he mentions three felonies. What he doesn’t
   say is that the crimes that he has charged me with are crimes that
   don’t allow me to make my case. They don’t allow me to defend myself in
   an open court to the public and convince a jury that what I did was to
   their benefit.
   The Espionage Act was never intended (it’s from 1918), it was never
   intended to prosecute journalistic sources: people who are informing
   the newspapers about information that’s of public interest. It was
   intended for people who are selling documents in secret to foreign
   governments, who are bombing bridges, who are sabotaging
   communications, not people who are serving the public good. So it’s, I
   would say, illustrative that the President would choose to say someone
   should face the music, when he knows the music is a show trial.
   Source [302]here (03.02.14).
   Picture: Letter to Angela Merkel Germany re Nazi gold stolen from US in
   1930s
   [303]http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-XVdXevUIUcM/Utv24cAOnFI/AAAAAAAAGTY/EmI1
   UxZo1Lk/s1600/Neil+Keenan+letter+to+German+Chancellor+Angela+Merkel+on+
   1st+January+2014+about+Nazi+gold+stolen+from+USA+in+the+early+1930s+-+f
   ull+text+-+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   Original images of letter [304]here (p1) and [305]here (p2). Source and
   Neil Keenan video commentary [306]here (04.01.14).
   A question:
   Was one of the results of the Edward Snowden NSA GCHQ surveillance
   disclosures in 2013 to confirm that the main function of G5 governance
   in the West is to lie to the people, lie to the media, lie to the
   courts, lie to international allies, lie, lie and lie again? And that
   one of the main functions of the deep, unelected, security state is to
   oblige their G5 governments to do this at all times?
   [307]Full text of Glenn Greenwald's keynote address to the 30th Chaos
   Communication Congress (30C3) in Hamburg, Germany, on Friday 27th
   December 2013.
   Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you everybody for that warm
   welcome, and thank you as well to the Congress organisers for inviting
   me to speak.
   My reaction when I learned that I had been asked to deliver the keynote
   to this conference was probably similar to the one some of you had,
   which was: "wait, what?"
   And the reason is that my cryptographic and hacker skills are not
   exactly world-renowned. You know, the story has been told many times of
   how I almost lost the biggest national security story in the last
   decade, at least because I found the installation of PGP to be
   insurmountably annoying and difficult.
   There's another story that's very similar that illustrates the same
   point, that I actually don't think has been told before, which is that
   prior to my going to Hong Kong, I spent many hours with both Laura
   Poitras and Edward Snowden trying to get up to speed on the basics of
   security technology that I would need in order to report on this story.
   They tried to tutor me in all sorts of programs, and finally concluded
   that the only one, at least at that time, for that moment, that I could
   handle was TrueCrypt.
   They taught me the basics of TrueCrypt, and when I went to Hong Kong,
   before I would go to sleep, I would play around with TrueCrypt. I kind
   of taught myself a couple of functions that they hadn't even taught me
   and really had this sort of confidence.
   On the third or fourth day, I went over to meet both of them and I was
   beaming with pride. I showed them all of the new things that I had
   taught myself how to do on TrueCrypt, and pronounced myself this
   Cryptographic Master; that I was really becoming advanced.
   I looked at both of them and I didn't see any return pride coming my
   way. Actually, what I saw was them trying really hard to avoid rolling
   their eyes out of their heads at me, to one another.
   I said: "Why are you reacting that way? Why isn't that a great
   accomplishment?" They sort of let some moments go by. No one wanted to
   break it to me, until finally Snowden piped in and said: "TrueCrypt is
   really meant for your little kid brother to be able to master. It's not
   all that impressive."
   I remember being very deflated, and kind of going back to the drawing
   board. Well, that was six months ago. In the interim, the importance of
   security technology and privacy technology has become really central to
   everything it is that I do. I really have learned an enormous amount
   about both its importance and how it functions. And I'm far from the
   only one. I think one of the most significant outcomes of the last six
   months, but one of the most underdiscussed, is how many people now
   appreciate the importance of protecting the security of their
   communications.
   If you go and look at my inbox from July, probably 3-5% of the emails I
   received were composed of PGP code. That percentage is definitely above
   50% today, and probably well above 50%. When we talked about forming
   our new media company, we barely spent any time on the question. It was
   simply assumed that we were all going to use the most sophisticated
   encryption that was available to communicate with one another.
   And I think, most encouragingly, whenever I'm contacted by anyone in
   journalism or activism, or any related fields, they either use
   encryption, or are embarrassed and ashamed that they don't, and
   apologise for the fact that they don't, and vow that they're soon going
   to.
   It's a really remarkable sea-change, even from the middle of last year,
   when I would talk to some of the leading national security journalists
   in the world, who were working on some of the most sensitive
   information, and virtually none of them knew what PGP or OTR or any
   other of the leading privacy technologies were, let alone how to use
   them. It's really encouraging to see this technology spreading so
   pervasively.
   I think that this underscores an extremely important point, one that
   gives me great cause for optimism. I'm often asked whether I think that
   the stories that we've been learning over the last six months, the
   reporting and the debates that have arisen, will actually change
   anything and impose any real limits on the US surveillance state.
   Typically, when people think the answer to that question is yes, the
   thing that they cite most commonly is probably the least significant,
   which is that there's going to be some kind of debate, and our
   representatives in democratic government are going to respond to our
   debate, and they're going to impose limits with legislative reform.
   None of that is likely to happen. The US government and its allies are
   not going to voluntarily restrict their own surveillance powers in any
   meaningful way. In fact, the tactic of the US government that we see
   over and over, that we've seen historically, is to do the very
   opposite, which is that when they get caught doing something that
   brings them disrepute and causes scandal and concern, they're very
   adept at pretending to reform themselves through symbolic gestures,
   while at the same time, doing very little other than placating citizen
   anger and often increasing their own powers that created the scandal in
   the first place.
   We saw that in the mid-1970s, when there was serious concern and alarm
   in the United States, at least as much as there is now, if not more so,
   of the US government's surveillance capabilities and abuse. What the US
   government did in response was that they said: "Well, we're going to
   engage in all of these reforms that will safeguard these powers. We're
   going to create a special court that the government needs to go to get
   permission before they can target people with surveillance."
   That sounded great, but then they created the court in the most warped
   way possible. It's a secret court, where only the government gets to
   show up, where only the most pro-national security judges are
   appointed. So this court gave the appearance of oversight, when in
   reality it's the most grotesque rubber stamp that is known to the
   Western world. They almost never disapprove of anything. It simply
   created the appearance that there was judicial oversight.
   They also said they were going to create Congressional committees; the
   intelligence committees that are going to have as their main function
   overseeing the intelligence committees, and making certain that they no
   longer abuse their power. What they did instead was immediately install
   the most servile loyalists of the intelligence committees as head of
   this 'oversight committee'.
   That's been going on for decades, and today we have two of the most
   slavish, pro-NSA members of Congress as the heads of these committees
   who are really there to bolster and justify everything and anything the
   NSA does, rather than engage in real oversight. So, again, it's
   designed to prettify the process while bringing about no real reform.
   This process is now repeating itself. You see the President appoint a
   handful of his closest loyalists to this 'independent White House
   panel' that pretended to issue a report that was very balanced and
   critical of the surveillance state, but in reality introduced a variety
   of programs that, at the very best, would simply make these programs
   slightly more palatable from a public perspective, and in many cases,
   intensify the powers of the surveillance state, rather than reining
   them in in any meaningful way.
   So the answer to whether we're or not going to have meaningful reform
   definitely does not lie in the typical processes of democratic
   accountability that we're all taught to respect. But they do lie
   elsewhere. It is possible that there will be courts that will impose
   some meaningful restrictions by finding that the programs are
   unconstitutional.
   It's much more possible that other countries around the world who are
   truly indignant about the breaches of their privacy security will band
   together and create alternatives, either in terms of infrastructure, or
   legal régimes that will prevent the United States from exercising
   hegemony over the Internet or make the cost of doing so far too high. I
   think even more promising is the fact that large private corporations,
   Internet companies and others will start finally paying a price for
   their collaboration with this spying régime.
   We've seen that already, when they've been dragged into the light, and
   finally now are forced to account for what it is that they're doing,
   and to realise that their economic interests are imperilled by the
   spying system, exercising their unparalleled power to demand that it be
   reined in. I think that all of those things are very possible as
   serious constraints on the surveillance state.
   But I ultimately think that where the greatest hope lies is with the
   people in this room and the skills that all of you possess. The privacy
   technologies that have already been developed: the Tor Browser, PGP,
   OTR, and a variety of other products are making real inroads in
   preventing the US government and its allies from invading the sanctity
   of our communications.
   None of them is perfect. None of them is invulnerable, but they all
   pose a serious obstacle to the US government's ability to continue to
   destroy our privacy. And ultimately, the battle over Internet freedom,
   the question of whether or not the Internet will really be this tool of
   liberation and democratisation, or whether it'll become the worst tool
   of human oppression in all of human history will be fought out, I
   think, primarily, on the technological battlefield.
   The NSA and the US government certainly knows that. That's why Keith
   Alexander gets dressed up in his little costumes, his dad jeans and his
   edgy black shirt and goes to hacker conferences.
   And it's why corporations in Silicon Valley, like Palantir
   Technologies, spend so much effort depicting themselves as these
   kind-of rebellious, pro-civil-libertarian factions, as they spend most
   of their time in secret working hand-in-hand with the intelligence
   community and the CIA to increase their capabilities, because they want
   to recruit particularly younger brainpower onto their side, the side of
   destroying privacy and putting the Internet to use for the world's most
   powerful factions.
   What the outcome of this conflict is, what the Internet ultimately
   becomes really is not answerable in any definitive way now. It depends
   so much on what it is that we, as human beings, do. One of the most
   pressing questions is whether people like the ones who are in this
   room, and the people who have the skills that you have, now and in the
   future, will succumb to those temptations, and go to work for the very
   entities that are attempting to destroy privacy around the world, or
   whether you will put your talents, skills and resources to defending
   human beings from those invasions, and continuing to create effective
   technologies to protect our privacy. I am very optimistic because that
   power does lie in your hands.
   I want to talk about another cause for optimism that I have, which is
   that the pro-privacy alliance is a lot healthier and more vibrant. It's
   a lot bigger and stronger than, I think, a lot of us, even who are in
   it, often appreciate and realise. Even more so, it is rapidly growing.
   And, I think, inexorably growing.
   I know, for me, personally, every single thing that I have done, over
   the last six months, on this story, and all of the platforms I've been
   given, like this speech and the honours that I've received, and the
   accolades that I've been given, are ones that I share completely with
   two people who have been critically important to everything that I have
   done.
   One of them is my unbelievably brave and incomparably brilliant
   collaborator, Laura Poitras. You know, Laura doesn't get a huge amount
   of attention, which is how she likes it, but she really does deserve
   every last recognition, honour and award because although it sounds
   cliché, it really is the case that without her, none of this would have
   happened.
   We have talked every single day, virtually, over the last six months.
   We have made almost every decision, certainly every significant one, in
   complete partnership and collaboration. Being able to work with
   somebody who has that high level of understanding about Internet
   security, about strategies for protecting privacy, has been completely
   indispensable to the success of what we've been able to achieve.
   And then, the second person who has been utterly indispensable and
   deserves every last accolade, and to share in every last award, is
   Edward Snowden.
   It is really hard to put into words what a profound effect his choice
   has had on me, and on Laura, and on the people with whom we've worked
   directly, and on people with whom we've indirectly worked, and then
   millions and millions of people around the world. The courage and the
   principled act of conscience that he displayed will shape and inspire
   me for the rest of my life, and will inspire and convince millions and
   millions of people to take all sorts of acts that they might not have
   taken because they've seen what good for the world can be done by even
   a single individual.
   But I think that it's so important to realise, and to me this is the
   critical point, that none of us, the three of us, did what we did in a
   vacuum. We were all inspired by people who have done similar things in
   the past. I'm absolutely certain that Edward Snowden was inspired in
   all sorts of ways by the heroism and self-sacrifice of Chelsea Manning.
   And I'm quite certain that, in one way or another, she (Chelsea
   Manning) was inspired by the whole litany of whistleblowers and other
   people of conscience who came before her to blow the whistle on extreme
   levels of corruption, wrongdoing and illegality among the world's most
   powerful factions. They in turn were inspired, I'm certain, by the
   person who is one of my greatest political heroes, Daniel Ellsberg, who
   did this forty years ago.
   Even beyond that, I think it is really important to realise that
   everything that has been allowed to happen over the last six months
   and, I think, any kind of significant leak and whistleblowing of
   classified information in the digital age, both past and future, owes a
   huge debt of gratitude to the organisation which really pioneered the
   template, and that's WikiLeaks.
   You know, we didn't completely copy, to the letter, the model of
   WikiLeaks. We modified it a little bit, just like WikiLeaks modified
   what it has decided it's best tactics and strategies are as it went
   along, and I'm sure people who come after us will modify what we have
   done to improve on what we have done and to avoid some of our mistakes
   and some of the attacks that have actually been successful. But I think
   the point that is really underscored here, and it was underscored for
   me, probably most powerfully, when Edward Snowden was rescued from Hong
   Kong, from probable arrest and imprisonment for the next thirty years
   by the United States, not only by WikiLeaks, but by an extraordinarily
   courageous and heroic woman, Sarah Harrison.
   There's a huge network of human beings, around the world, who believe
   in this cause, and not only believe in it, but are increasingly willing
   to devote their energies and their resources and their time, and to
   sacrifice for it. There's a reason that that's remarkable, and it kind
   of occurred to me in a telephone call that I had with Laura, probably
   two months or so ago. Although we've communicated every day, we've
   almost never communicated by telephone. One of the few exceptions was
   we were going to speak at an event at the Electronic Frontier
   Foundation and we got on the phone the night before to sort-of talk
   about what ground she would cover, and what ground I would cover.
   What she said to me is: "You know, it's amazing if you think about it."
   She went through the list of people who have devoted themselves to
   transparency and the price that they have paid. She said Edward Snowden
   is stuck in Russia facing thirty years in prison, Chelsea Manning is in
   prison, Aaron Swartz committed suicide. People like Jeremy Hammond and
   Barrett Brown are the subjects of grotesquely overzealous prosecutions
   by virtue of the acts of transparency they've engaged in. Even people
   like Jim Risen, who is with an organisation like the New York Times,
   faces the possibility of prison for stories that he's published.
   Laura and I have been advised by countless lawyers that it is not safe
   for us to even travel to our own country, and she said: "It's really a
   sign of how sick our political future has become, that the price for
   bringing transparency to the government, and for doing the job of the
   media, and the Congress, that they're not doing, is this extreme form
   of punishment."
   You know, she was right, and she had a good point. I had a hard time
   disagreeing with the thing as anybody would. But I said, you know,
   there's actually another interesting point that that list reveals. The
   thing that's so interesting to me about that list is that it actually
   keeps growing, as long as it is. The reason why that's so amazing to me
   is because the reason the people on that list, and others like them,
   pay a price, is because the United States knows that it's only hope for
   continuing to maintain its regimen of secrecy, behind which it can
   engage in those radical and corrupt acts, is to intimidate, deter and
   threaten people who are would-be whistleblowers and transparency
   activists from coming forward and doing what it is that they do by
   showing them that they would be subjected to even the most extreme
   punishments and there's nothing anybody can do about it.
   It's an effective tactic. It works for some people, not because those
   people are cowardly, but because they're rational. It really is the
   case that the United States and the British government are not only
   willing, but able to essentially engage in any conduct, no matter how
   grotesque, no matter how extreme, no matter how lawless, with very
   little opposition that they perceive is enough to make them not want to
   do it. So there are activists who rationally conclude that it's not
   worth the price for me to pay in order to engage in that behaviour.
   That's why they continue to do it. But the paradox is that there are a
   lot of other people, I think even more people, who react in exactly the
   opposite way.
   When they see the US and the UK government showing their true face,
   showing the extent to which they're willing to abuse their power, they
   don't become scared or deterred, they become even more emboldened. And
   the reason for that is that when you see that these governments are
   really capable of that level of abuse of power, you realise that you
   can no longer, in good conscience, stand by and do nothing. It becomes
   an even greater imperative for you to come forward and shine a light on
   what they're doing, and if you listen to any of those whistleblowers or
   activists, they'll all say the same thing.
   It was a slow process to realise that the acts in which you engage are
   justified, but they were finally convinced of it by the actions of
   these governments themselves. It's a really sweet irony, and I think it
   calls for serious optimism, that it is the United States and its
   closest allies who are sowing the seeds of dissent, who are fuelling
   the fire of this activism with their own abusive behaviour.
   Now, speaking of the attempt to intimidate and deter, and the like, I
   just want to spend a few minutes talking about the current posture of
   the United States government, with regard to Edward Snowden. It's
   become extremely clear, at this point, that the US government, from the
   highest levels on down, is completely committed to pursuing only one
   outcome. That outcome is one where Edward Snowden ends up spending
   several decades, if not the rest of his life, in a small cage, probably
   cut off, in terms of communication, with the rest of the world. And the
   reason why they're so intent on doing that is not hard to see. It's not
   because they're worried that society needs to be protected from Edward
   Snowden, and from him repeating these actions. I think it's probably a
   pretty safe bet that Edward Snowden's security clearance is more or
   less permanently revoked.
   The reason they're so intent on it is because they cannot allow Edward
   Snowden to live any sort of a decent and free life because they're
   petrified that that will inspire other people to follow his example,
   and to be unwilling to maintain this bond of secrecy when maintaining
   that bond does nothing but hide illegal and damaging conduct from the
   people who are most affected by it.
   And what I find most amazing about that is not that the United States
   government is doing that, that's what they do. It's who they are. What
   I find amazing about it is that there are so many governments around
   the world, including ones that are capable of protecting his human
   rights, and who have been the biggest beneficiaries of his heroic
   revelations, who are willing to stand by and watch his human rights be
   crushed, him be imprisoned for the crime of showing the world what's
   being done to their privacy.
   It has really been startling to watch governments, including some of
   the largest in Europe, and their leaders, go out in public and express
   intense indignation over the fact that the privacy of their citizens is
   being systematically breached, and genuine indignation when they learn
   that their privacy has also been targeted. Yet, at the same time, the
   person who sacrificed in order to defend their basic human rights,
   their rights to privacy, is now having his own human rights targeted
   and threatened in recrimination. And I realise that for any country
   like Germany or France or Brazil, or any other country around the
   world, to defy the dictates of the United States, there's a cost of
   doing that. But there was an even greater cost to Edward Snowden to
   come forward and do what he did in defence of your rights, and yet he
   did it anyway.
   I think that what's really important to realise is that countries have
   the legal and the international obligations, by virtues of the treaties
   that they've signed, to defend Edward Snowden from political
   persecution, and prevent him from being in a cage for the rest of his
   life, for having shone a light on systematic abuses of privacy, and
   other forms of abuses of secrecy. But they also have the ethical and
   moral obligation as the beneficiaries of his actions, to do what he did
   for them, which is to protect his rights in return.
   I want to spend a little bit of time talking about one of my favourite
   topics, which is journalism. When I was in Hong Kong, with Laura and Ed
   Snowden, and I've been reflecting on this a lot in the course of
   writing a book that I've been writing over the course of the past
   couple of months about everything that's happened, one of the things I
   realised in looking back on that moment and also in talking to Laura
   about what took place there, was that we spent at least as much time
   talking about issues relating to journalism and a free press as we did
   talking about surveillance policy. The reason is that we knew that what
   we were about to do would trigger as many debates over the proper role
   of journalists vis-à-vis the state and other power factions, as it
   would the importance of Internet freedom and privacy, and the threat of
   the surveillance state.
   We knew, in particular, that one of our most formidable adversaries was
   not simply going to be the intelligence agencies on which we were
   reporting, and who we were trying to expose, but also their most loyal,
   devoted servants, which calls itself the United States and British
   media.
   And so we spent a great deal of time strategising about it, and we
   resolved that we were going to have to be very disruptive of the status
   quo. Not only the surveillance and political status quo, but also the
   journalistic status quo.  And, I think, one of the ways we can see what
   it is we were targeting, lies in the behaviour of the media over the
   past six months, since these revelations have emerged almost entirely
   without them and despite them.
   One of the more remarkable things that has happened to me is I gave an
   interview, three weeks or so, or a month ago, on the BBC.  It was on
   this program called Hard Talk, and I, at one point, thought I had made
   what I thought was the very unremarkable and uncontroversial
   observation, that the reason why we have a free press is because
   national security officials routinely lie to the population in order to
   shield their power and to get their agenda advanced, and that the goal
   and duty of a journalist is to be adversarial to those people in power,
   and that the pronouncements that this interviewer was citing about how
   these government programs are critical to stopping terrorists should
   not be believed unless there's actual evidence shown, that they're
   actually true.
   When I said that, he interrupted me (and I'm sorry, I don't do pompous
   British accents well, so you'll just have to transpose it in your own
   imagination onto what I'm saying) and he said: "I just need to stop
   you, you have said something so remarkable!" He was like a Victorian
   priest scandalised by seeing a woman pull up her skirt a little bit
   above her ankles.
   He said: "I just cannot believe that you would suggest that senior
   officials, generals in the United States and British government, are
   actually making false claims to the public! How can you possibly say
   something like that?"
   And that is not aberrational. It really is the central view of,
   certainly, American and British media stars, that when, especially
   people with medals on their chests, who are called generals, but also
   high-ranking officials in the government, make claims, that those
   claims are presumptively treated as true without evidence, and that
   it's almost immoral to call them into question, or to question their
   veracity.
   Obviously, we went through the Iraq war, which those two very sane
   governments specifically and deliberately lied about repeatedly to
   their people, over the course of two years, to justify an aggressive
   war that destroyed a country of 26 million people. But we've seen it
   continuously over the last six months as well. The very first document
   that Edward Snowden ever showed me was one that he explained would
   reveal unquestionable lying by the senior national intelligence
   official of President Obama, the Director of National Intelligence,
   James Clapper. That was the document that revealed that the Obama
   administration had succeeded in convincing a secret court to oblige
   phone companies to turn over, to the NSA, every single phone record, of
   every single telephone call, local and international, of every single
   American, even though that National Security official, James Clapper,
   before the Senate, just months earlier, was asked: "Does the NSA
   collect whole data about the communications of Americans?" and he
   answered: "No, sir." That we all now know is a complete lie.
   There are other lies that the NSA and the US government's top officials
   have told. And by 'lie' I mean, advisedly, things they know to be false
   that they're saying anyway to convince people of what they want them to
   believe. Keith Alexander, the head of the NSA, repeatedly said that
   they are incapable of accounting for the exact number of calls and
   emails that they intercept from the American telecommunications system,
   even the program that we ended up exposing. Boundless Informant, counts
   with exact mathematical precision, exactly the data that he said he is
   incapable of providing. Or the NSA and the GCHQ, which have repeatedly
   said that the purpose of these programs is to protect people from
   terrorism, and to safeguard national security, and that they never,
   unlike those evil thieves, engage in spying for economic reasons.
   And yet, report after report that we revealed, from spying on the
   Brazilian oil giant, Petrobras, to the spying on American (allied)
   states at economic summits where economic accords were negotiated, to
   energy companies around the world in Europe, Asia and Latin America,
   just completely negate these claims and prove that they are lies. And
   then we have President Obama, who repeatedly says things like: "We
   cannot, and do not, spy on the communications of Americans without
   warrants," even though the 2008 law that was enacted by the Congress
   had (a clause that urged) the US government not to ease up on American
   (private citizen surveillance) without warrants.
   And what you see here is real lying. And yet, at the same time, the
   same media that sees it, acts scandalised if you suggest that their
   claims should not be taken at face value, without evidence, because
   their rôle is not to be adversarial. Their rôle is to be loyal
   spokespeople for those powerful factions that they pretend to exercise
   oversight over.
   Just one more point on that, which is to understand just how the
   American and British media function. You can pretty much turn on the
   TV, at any moment, or open an Internet website, and see very brave
   American journalists calling Edward Snowden a criminal and demanding
   that he be extradited to the United States, and prosecuted and
   imprisoned. They're very brave when it comes to declaring people who
   are scorned in Washington, and who have no power, and have become
   marginalised; they're very brave in condemning them, standing up to
   them, and demanding that the rule of law be applied to them faithfully.
   "He broke the law, he must pay the consequences." And yet, the top
   national security official of the United States government went to the
   Senate and lied to their faces, everybody now knows, which is at least
   as much of a serious crime as anything Edward Snowden is accused of.
   You will be very hard pressed to find even a single one of those brave,
   intrepid journalists ever thinking about, let alone expressing, the
   idea that Director of National Intelligence James Clapper ought to be
   subject to the rule of law and be prosecuted and imprisoned for the
   crimes that he committed, because the rôle of the US media and their
   British counterparts is to be voices for those with the greatest power,
   and to protect their interests and serve them.
   Everything that we've done over the last six months, and everything
   that we've decided over the last month about forming a new media
   organisation, is all about trying to subvert that process and reanimate
   and reinstil the process of journalism for what it was intended to be,
   which was as a true adversarial force, a check against those with the
   greatest power.
   So I just want to close with one last point, which is the nature of the
   surveillance state that we've reported over the last six months. Every
   time I do an interview, people ask similar questions such as: "What is
   the most significant story that you have revealed?" or: "What is it
   that we have learned about the last story that you just published?" And
   what I've really begun saying is that there really is only one
   overarching point that all of these stories have revealed.  And that
   is, and I say this without the slightest bit of hyperbole or melodrama,
   it's not metaphorical and it's not figurative, it is literally true,
   that the goal of the NSA, and its Five Eyes partners in the
   English-speaking world (Canada, New Zealand, Australia and especially
   the UK) is to eliminate privacy globally. To ensure that there can be
   no human communications that occur electronically, that evade their
   surveillance network.
   They want to make sure that all forms of human communication, by
   telephone or by Internet, and all online activities, are collected,
   monitored, stored, and analysed by that agency, and by their allies.
   That means that to describe that is to describe a ubiquitous
   surveillance state. You don't need hyperbole to make that point, and
   you don't need to believe me when I say that that's their goal.
   Document after document within the archive that Edward Snowden provided
   to us declares that to be their goal. They are obsessed with searching
   out any small little crevice on the planet where some form of
   communication might take place without their being able to invade it.
   One of the stories that we're working on now (I used to get in trouble
   when I was at The Guardian for previewing my stories; I'm not at The
   Guardian anymore, so I'm going to do it anyway), is this: the NSA and
   the GCHQ are being driven crazy by the idea that you can go on an
   airplane and use certain cellphone devices or Internet services and be
   away from their prying eyes for a few hours at a time. They are
   obsessed with finding ways to invade the systems of online, onboard
   Internet services and mobile phone services. The very idea that human
   beings can communicate, even for a few moments, without them being able
   to collect, and store, analyse, and monitor what it is that we're
   saying, is simply intolerable. That is their institutional mandate.
   And when I get asked questions, when I do interviews in different
   countries: "Well, why would they want to spy on this official?" or:
   "Why would they want to spy on Sweden?" or: "Why would they want to
   target this company here?" the premise of those questions is really
   flawed. The premise of the question is that the NSA and the GCHQ need a
   specific reason to target somebody for surveillance. That is not how
   they think. They target every form of communication that they can
   possibly get their hands on. And if you think about what individual
   privacy does for us, as human beings, let alone what it does for us on
   a political level, that it really is the thing that lets us explore
   boundaries and engage in creativity, and use the mechanisms of dissent
   without fear, when you think about the world in which privacy is
   allowed to be eliminated, you're really talking about eliminating
   everything that makes it valuable to be a free individual.
   The surveillance state, by its necessity, by its very existence, breeds
   conformity, because when human beings know that they're always
   susceptible to being watched, even if they're not always being watched,
   the choices that they make are far more constrained, are far more
   limited, cling far more closely to orthodoxy, than when they can act in
   the private realm, and that's precisely why the NSA and GCHQ, and the
   world's most powerful (factions) throughout history (always have) as
   their first goal (at the top of their list) the elimination of privacy,
   because that's what ensures that human beings can no longer resist the
   decrees that they're issuing.
   Well, thank you, once again, very much.
   Primary source: [308]here (30.12.13).
   Picture: What we perceive down here in 3D to be impossible. Alcuin
   Bramerton.
   [309]http://www.impossible.com/
   #

     Why is [310]#JoeBiden trying to force [311]#Seoul to hand over
     300000 tons of [312]#Asian [313]#gold to fund a new [314]#G5 war?
     [315]http://t.co/wA5DkaM0bd [316]#1ab [317]#DC [318]#CDU
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [319]December 12, 2013

   Picture: Edward Snowden, American patriot, NSA PRISM Whistleblower.
   [320]http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-be_BUwDW7t8/UeP7p1QfkxI/AAAAAAAAGIY/le3c
   fGYTHLs/s1600/I+Spy+You.+No+Brazilian+is+safe+from+the+digital+surveill
   ance+of+the+US+Government.+Brazilian+news+magazine.+June-July+2013.+%23
   1ab+(3).jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   [321]Global Government Surveillance Reform
   An open letter to Washington
   Dear Mr President and Members of Congress,
   We understand that governments have a duty to protect their citizens.
   But this summer’s revelations highlighted the urgent need to reform
   government surveillance practices worldwide. The balance in many
   countries has tipped too far in favor of the state and away from the
   rights of the individual - rights that are enshrined in our
   Constitution. This undermines the freedoms we all cherish. It’s time
   for a change.
   For our part, we are focused on keeping users’ data secure - deploying
   the latest encryption technology to prevent unauthorized surveillance
   on our networks and by pushing back on government requests to ensure
   that they are legal and reasonable in scope.
   We urge the US to take the lead and make reforms that ensure that
   government surveillance efforts are clearly restricted by law,
   proportionate to the risks, transparent and subject to independent
   oversight. To see the full set of principles we support, visit
   [322]ReformGovernmentSurveillance.com
   Sincerely,
   AOL, Apple, Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Microsoft, Twitter, Yahoo.
   The undersigned companies believe that it is time for the world’s
   governments to address the practices and laws regulating government
   surveillance of individuals and access to their information.
   While the undersigned companies understand that governments need to
   take action to protect their citizens’ safety and security, we strongly
   believe that current laws and practices need to be reformed.
   Consistent with established global norms of free expression and privacy
   and with the goals of ensuring that government law enforcement and
   intelligence efforts are rule-bound, narrowly tailored, transparent,
   and subject to oversight, we hereby call on governments to endorse the
   following principles and enact reforms that would put these principles
   into action.
   AOL, Apple, Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Microsoft, Twitter, Yahoo.
   The Principles
   (1) Limiting Governments’ Authority to Collect Users’ Information
   Governments should codify sensible limitations on their ability to
   compel service providers to disclose user data that balance their need
   for the data in limited circumstances, users’ reasonable privacy
   interests, and the impact on trust in the Internet. In addition,
   governments should limit surveillance to specific, known users for
   lawful purposes, and should not undertake bulk data collection of
   Internet communications.
   (2) Oversight and Accountability
   Intelligence agencies seeking to collect or compel the production of
   information should do so under a clear legal framework in which
   executive powers are subject to strong checks and balances. Reviewing
   courts should be independent and include an adversarial process, and
   governments should allow important rulings of law to be made public in
   a timely manner so that the courts are accountable to an informed
   citizenry.
   (3) Transparency About Government Demands
   Transparency is essential to a debate over governments’ surveillance
   powers and the scope of programs that are administered under those
   powers. Governments should allow companies to publish the number and
   nature of government demands for user information. In addition,
   governments should also promptly disclose this data publicly.
   (4) Respecting the Free Flow of Information
   The ability of data to flow or be accessed across borders is essential
   to a robust 21st century global economy. Governments should permit the
   transfer of data and should not inhibit access by companies or
   individuals to lawfully available information that is stored outside of
   the country. Governments should not require service providers to locate
   infrastructure within a country’s borders or operate locally.
   (5) Avoiding Conflicts Among Governments
   In order to avoid conflicting laws, there should be a robust,
   principled, and transparent framework to govern lawful requests for
   data across jurisdictions, such as improved mutual legal assistance
   treaty -  or “MLAT” - processes. Where the laws of one jurisdiction
   conflict with the laws of another, it is incumbent upon governments to
   work together to resolve the conflict.
   Voices For Reform
   AOL is committed to preserving the privacy of our customers’
   information, while respecting the right of governments to request
   information on specific users for lawful purposes. AOL is proud to
   unite with other leading Internet companies to advocate on behalf of
   our consumers. Tim Armstrong, Chairman and CEO, AOL.
   Reports about government surveillance have shown there is a real need
   for greater disclosure and new limits on how governments collect
   information. The US government should take this opportunity to lead
   this reform effort and make things right. Mark Zuckerberg, CEO,
   Facebook.
   The security of users’ data is critical, which is why we’ve invested so
   much in encryption and fight for transparency around government
   requests for information. This is undermined by the apparent wholesale
   collection of data, in secret and without independent oversight, by
   many governments around the world. It’s time for reform and we urge the
   US government to lead the way. Larry Page, CEO, Google.
   These principles embody LinkedIn’s fundamental commitment to
   transparency and ensuring appropriate government practices that are
   respectful of our members’ expectations. Erika Rottenberg, General
   Counsel, LinkedIn.
   People won’t use technology they don’t trust. Governments have put this
   trust at risk, and governments need to help restore it. Brad Smith,
   General Counsel and Executive Vice President, Legal and Corporate
   Affairs, Microsoft.
   Twitter is committed to defending and protecting the voice of our
   users. Unchecked, undisclosed government surveillance inhibits the free
   flow of information and restricts their voice. The principles we
   advance today would reform the current system to appropriately balance
   the needs of security and privacy while safeguarding the essential
   human right of free expression. Dick Costolo, CEO, Twitter.
   Protecting the privacy of our users is incredibly important to Yahoo.
   Recent revelations about government surveillance activities have shaken
   the trust of our users, and it is time for the United States government
   to act to restore the confidence of citizens around the world. Today we
   join our colleagues in the tech industry calling on the United States
   Congress to change surveillance laws in order to ensure transparency
   and accountability for government actions. Marissa Mayer, CEO, Yahoo.
   Primary source [323]here (December 2013).
   [324]Democracy and the hidden cult of corporate control: Is democracy
   the greatest trick the deep unelected shadow élites have ever played on
   the masses?
   Voranai Vanijaka writes in Thailand's Bangkok Post [325]here
   (08.12.13). His views are similar to some of the ideas Russell Brand
   has been articulating in the West, for example [326]here (05.11.13) and
   [327]here (24.10.13).
   What is democracy? The freedom to elect our chosen dictators?
   Are leaking, whistleblowing, hacking and revolution now more effective
   than voting? And are they more patriotic?
   Picture: Vicar with dog collar. Charles, you sound so sexy when you
   read to us.
   [328]http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-BC9NDuIHpaU/UpdPHXHNRPI/AAAAAAAAGR8/2BQ-
   S6nZX0I/s1600/Graffiti+on+back+of+ladies%27+toilet+door+in+church.+God+
   is+Love,+but+Satan+does+that+thing+you+like+with+his+tongue.+%231ab.jpg
   ?SSImageQuality=Full
   Picture: You must believe us. We are senior spies. We know how the
   world works.
   [329]http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-4bLI7hGh_j8/Uo53OkwiM_I/AAAAAAAAGRs/UieX
   fXK_NWQ/s1600/UK+and+US+spy+chiefs+under+fire+for+illegal+mass+surveill
   ance+programmes.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
   Picture: Female protester & policeman crying together. Sofia Bulgaria
   Nov 2013.
   [330]http://www.novinite.com/view_news.php?id=155708
   Context of picture [331]here.
   Picture: King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. Baby you can drive my car.
   [332]http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-QjEv7bFzCIM/T5zgQxwSMaI/AAAAAAAABWw/_-jF
   EPYwu_c/s1600/You%2Bare%2Ba%2Bbig%2Bboy.%2BDo%2Byou%2Bwant%2Bme%2Bto%2B
   come%2Bout%2Band%2Bplay..jpg?SSImageQuality=Full

   IFRAME: [333]//www.youtube.com/embed/aZMbTFNp4wI

   Saudi Arabia news background [334]here (31.10.13), [335]here
   (29.10.13), [336]here (27.10.13), [337]here (27.10.13) and [338]here
   (26.10.13).
   Picture: Boris Johnson yawning. #AskBoris. Boris Johnson. Mayor of
   London.
   [339][%23AskBoris.+Boris+Johnson+.+Mayor+of+London.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQ
   uality=Full]
   Picture: Obama’s NSA spies on Europe. Angela Merkel’s phone hacked by
   US.
   [340][Obama%E2%80%99s+NSA+spies+on+Europe.+Angela+Merkels+phone+hacked+
   by+US.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   #

     Has the [341]#US [342]#quietly [343]#sold [344]#JPMorgan to
     [345]#China? [346]http://t.co/8wnZdEsEY8 [347]#1ab [348]#forex
     [349]#fx [350]#gold [351]#silver [352]#banks [353]#OWS [354]#1u
     [355]#AskBoE [356]#AJE [357]#r4today
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [358]October 22, 2013

     How did the [359]#Pentagon rumble the [360]#BlackOps transfer of 4
     [361]#nukes from [362]#Dyess [363]#AFB [364]#Texas for a
     [365]#FalseFlag in [366]#SC? [367]http://t.co/G4NrxGDzAC [368]#1ab
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [369]October 22, 2013

   Picture: Manifest evil. NSA. GCHQ. The central societal function of
   privacy.
   [370][Manifest+evil.+NSA.+GCHQ.+The+central+societal+function+of+privac
   y+is+to+create+the+space+for+citizens+to+resist+the+violation+of+their+
   rights+by+governments+and+corporations.+2.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Fu
   ll]
   Picture: To the Freemasons et al running the US. Please get your shit
   together.
   [371][To+the+Freemasons+et+al+running+the+US.+Please+get+your+shit+toge
   ther.+This+is+embarrassing.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: Putin says negotiating with Obama is like playing chess with a
   pigeon.
   [372][Putin+on+Obama+2013.+Negotiating+with+Obama+is+like+playing+chess
   +with+a+pigeon.+The+pigeon+knocks+over+all+the+pieces,+shits+on+the+boa
   rd,+and+then+struts+around+like+it+won+the+game.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQual
   ity=Full]
   Picture: The view of the US from Iran. October 2013. Khamenei and
   Rouhani.
   [373][The+view+of+the+US+from+Iran.+October+2013.+Supreme+Leader+Ayatol
   lah+Ali+Khamenei+and+Iranian+President+Hassan+Rouhani.+%231ab.jpg?SSIma
   geQuality=Full]
   Picture: More unnecessary wars, carnage and bloodshed. Binyamin
   Netanyahu.
   [374][The+only+thing+which+will+bring+peace+and+security+to+the+Middle+
   East+is+more+unnecessary+wars,+carnage+and+bloodshed.+Binyamin+Netanyah
   u.+Prime+Minister+of+Israel.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: I'm crapping my pants here trying to start World War 3.
   Netanyahu.
   [375][I%27m+crapping+my+pants+here+trying+to+start+World+War+3+and+nobo
   dy%27s+taking+any+notice.+Binyamin+Netanyahu.+Prime+Minister+of+Israel.
   +%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   #

     Has a [376]#covert [377]#Cyprus style [378]#wealth
     [379]#confiscation begun all over the [380]#world?
     [381]http://t.co/nmgnr4axZ8 [382]#1ab [383]#fx [384]#forex
     [385]#gold [386]#banks [387]#Madrid [388]#p2
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [389]September 27, 2013

     Is [390]#US [391]#mass [392]#opinion [393]#management now
     [394]#trying to [395]#suppress [396]#citizen [397]#journalism?
     [398]http://t.co/aAYIpr5jxe [399]#1ab [400]#Moscow [401]#Beijing
     [402]#p2 [403]#GOP [404]#e [405]#i
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [406]September 27, 2013

     7 yr old [407]#UK boy who developed [408]#narcolepsy after
     [409]#Pandemrix [410]#swine [411]#flu [412]#jab denied
     [413]#compensation. [414]http://t.co/VxOduoUY6i [415]#1ab
     [416]#vaccine [417]#GSK
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [418]September 27, 2013

   Picture: The voice of Henrik Ibsen in Ghosts. Emma Goldman. Greenwich
   Village.
   [419][The+voice+of+Henrik+Ibsen+in+Ghosts.+Emma+Goldman.+1869-1940.+Gre
   enwich+Village.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: Books will be opened. Based on Madame Stuart Merrill by Jean
   Delville.
   [420][Books+will+be+opened.+Based+on+Madame+Stuart+Merrill+by+Jean+Delv
   ille.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: Neil Keenan. 16th September 2013. Black Screen Code Book.
   [421][Neil+Keenan.+16th+September+2013.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   The two pictures above and their underclicks relate to these videos
   [422]here (16.09.13) and [423]here (16.09.13).

     Is [424]#gold being [425]#stolen from [426]#Indonesia & unlawfully
     melted & restamped in [427]#HongKong? [428]http://t.co/kZxvlORESu
     [429]#1ab [430]#fx [431]#forex [432]#silver [433]#IMF [434]#DC
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [435]September 18, 2013

   #
   # Picture: US Federal Reserve Bond Mother Box external view.
   [436][US+Federal+Reserve+Bond+Mother+Box+external+view.+%231ab.jpg?SSIm
   ageQuality=Full]

     What is inside [437]#Federal [438]#Reserve Box 1558?
     [439]http://t.co/slDPK4rDAK [440]#1ab [441]#Rockefeller [442]#Fed
     [443]#DC [444]#fx [445]#forex [446]#gold [447]#silver [448]#OWS
     [449]#p2 [450]#GOP [451]#1u [452]#NSA
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [453]September 17, 2013

   Picture: G20. Barack Obama is the puppet of Vladimir Putin.
   [454][Barack+Obama+is+the+puppet+of+Vladimir+Putin.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQ
   uality=Full]
   Alcuin Bramerton asks: Why is the Obama WH keeping
   detailed Syria chemo intel away from Congress?

     Why is the [455]#Obama [456]#WH keeping detailed [457]#Syria
     [458]#chemo [459]#intel away from [460]#Congress?
     [461]http://t.co/SPa0sM3wzq [462]#1ab [463]#DC [464]#SCOTUS [465]#UN
     [466]#G20 [467]#Moscow [468]#e
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [469]September 7, 2013

   Alcuin Bramerton asks: Have 12 high-status US intel vets
   just told Obama that Assad did not deploy the chemos?

     Have 12 high [470]#status [471]#US [472]#intel [473]#vets just told
     [474]#Obama that [475]#Assad did not [476]#deploy the [477]#chemos?
     [478]http://t.co/GX2nAvrf1s [479]#1ab [480]#UN [481]#G20
     [482]#Moscow
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [483]September 7, 2013

   Alcuin Bramerton asks: Is the real problem
   the US & AIPAC rather than Syria?

     Is the [484]#real [485]#problem the [486]#US & [487]#AIPAC rather
     than [488]#Syria? [489]http://t.co/5iZ2TcpKX3 [490]#1ab [491]#DC
     [492]#SCOTUS [493]#1u [494]#Damascus [495]#Homs [496]#Moscow
     [497]#G20 [498]#UN [499]#IDF
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [500]September 7, 2013

   #
   # Picture: Entity One & Entity Two at AIPAC conference in Washington
   DC. Aliens?
   [501][Who+were+these+two+security+personnel+at+the+AIPAC+conference+in+
   Washington+DC+on+Monday+5th+March+2012.+Entity+One+&amp;+Entity+Two.+%2
   31ab.+1..jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   There has been some discussion on the web about the identity, human or
   otherwise, of two AIPAC security goons. Introductory videos can be
   found [502]here and [503]here.

     The new [504]#Global [505]#Court of Human Rights will involve 174
     nations as signatories. [506]http://t.co/75phyqpPrD [507]#1ab
     [508]#G20 [509]#SCOTUS [510]#MSF [511]#AJE [512]#r4today
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [513]September 5, 2013

   Picture: US servicemen say they will not fight for Al Qaeda in Syria.
   [514][US+servicemen+say+they+will+not+fight+for+Al+Qaeda+in+the+Syrian+
   civil+war.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]

     Is the [515]#Keenan team in [516]#Jakarta about to secure
     [517]#sovereign status & [518]#diplomatic [519]#immunity?
     [520]http://t.co/norZPGPZNH [521]#1ab [522]#G20 [523]#AJE
     [524]#r4today [525]#e
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [526]September 4, 2013

     Will the [527]#UK's [528]#David [529]#Cameron be out of [530]#office
     by December 2013? [531]http://t.co/HbIra7kvDI [532]#1ab [533]#EU
     [534]#ECB [535]#G20 [536]#SCOTUS [537]#GBP [538]#Tories [539]#Witney
     [540]#e
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [541]September 4, 2013

     The [542]#BRICS [543]#alliance now has 173 nations. New Global
     [544]#Court of Human Rights ready to run.
     [545]http://t.co/iDxspTKNNQ [546]#1ab [547]#G20 [548]#EU [549]#AJE
     [550]#r4today
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [551]September 2, 2013

   Picture: The US and the UK do not start unnecessary wars lightly. Bush.
   Blair.
   [552][The+US+and+the+UK+do+not+start+unnecessary+wars+lightly.+Bush.+Bl
   air.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]

     What is [553]#AdnanSacly up to in [554]#Asia & [555]#why are the
     [556]#Vatican & the [557]#CIA [558]#after him?
     [559]http://t.co/IzPePSNR2L [560]#1ab [561]#Jakarta [562]#Manila
     [563]#Bangkok [564]#IMF
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [565]August 28, 2013

     What was [566]#ChuckHagel really doing in [567]#Jakarta? Local
     [568]#intel suggests it was not mainly about [569]#Syria.
     [570]http://t.co/7TNWVCjiYj [571]#1ab [572]#Indonesia
     — Alcuin Bramerton (@AlcuinBramerton) [573]August 27, 2013

   Picture: There are no authorities over you souls. Do not give away your
   power.
   [574][There+are+no+authorities+over+you+souls.+Do+not+give+away+your+po
   wer+to+an+external+leader+or+%C3%A9lite+group.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQualit
   y=Full]
   This has been a time for discernment. Indeed, it is imperative that you
   go within, as always, in order to discern for your own soul's resonance
   what you are being told or broadcast through your electronic
   instruments of communication.
   There are those who are in terrible fear lest they are revealed for the
   beings of darkness that they are. They bring lies in the form of smiles
   and reassurances that all is well .... as long as they are among your
   'leaders' in this world you will be taken care of; no one will be left
   behind. Just give your will over to them. Sound familiar?
   Many times in humanity's history these words of assurance have led to
   its further enslavement. There are no authorities over your souls. You
   are your own authority. Do not be lured by smiling faces with daggers
   hidden behind their backs.
   The harsh reality is that many who are on a conscious path to
   enlightenment have been swayed by hope. A hope that has been fed to
   those seekers who truly believe that life can be lived in a different
   way, with impeccability of soul.
   Hope is not knowingness. Hope is in the future. Being in your own power
   is NOW. Giving over your power to a leader or a group of people leaves
   your own power by the wayside.
   The situation facing humanity now is partially a result of looking to
   'leaders' for your next step. You are your own authority. You know your
   next step. You are great and powerful spiritual beings. You are
   leaders. Remember that followers can easily be led to and off a high
   cliff.
   The stinking, vile effluent flowing from those who would make you
   slaves to their whims is flowing across the Earth Mother in virulent
   thought-forms which are taking the innocence of children, the joy of
   youth and the pride of men and women in their prime, as well as leaving
   the elders without hope of peace and security in their time of
   completion.
   Only you can change this. Your own power is within. This is a time for
   you to take your own power and change your world. No one can do this
   for you.
   Are you determined to make this world a place that will nurture those
   to the seventh generation? How many are willing to stop relying on
   others to make your world a better place? It won't be dinars, dollars,
   yen, pounds that will change it for the better; it will be compassion,
   sacrifice, kindness, humility and strength of character.
   There has never been an easy road to [575]Ascension. Each soul follows
   its path through lifetimes of learning until it is ready to completely
   transcend this Earthly school. This has to be a conscious process. It
   is wake-up time. The old way isn't working, is it?
   Each soul must awake itself. You need courage to face and feel the
   dependence that you have agreed to with your 'leaders'. Now is the time
   for independence. Now is the time for Love incarnated. Now is the time
   for your soul's flight of Ascension. Now is the time to free yourselves
   of dependence upon 'leaders'.
   You are no longer little children to be led by 'leaders'. Be aware
   please, that the dark ones have infiltrated to some extent some of your
   messengers. Go within and feel what is true and what is distraction to
   keep you in a state of dramatic expectancy, playing with your emotions.
   Use your discernment, please.
   Think on these things this night. Good night. Loving dreams to you. I
   Am St Germain.
   Source [576]here (15.08.13 - from [577]Violinio Germain / Spirit Eagle
   / Madrona Woods).
   Picture: Keenan & Chiang July 2013. Global Collateral Accounts $93
   quadrillion.
   [578][July+2013.+Hong+Kong.+Neil+Keenan+and+Count+Albert+Chiang.+New+va
   luation.+Global+Collateral+Accounts+hold+$93+(ninety+three)+quadrillion
   +in+asset+backed+funds.+%231ab.jpg]
   Picture: M.L.King - I have a dream. B.Obama - I have a drone.
   [579][M.L.King+-+I+have+a+dream.+B.Obama+-+I+have+a+drone.+%231ab.jpg?S
   SImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: Is the UK's GCHQ snooping operation getting internet-savvy?
   NSA PRISM.
   [580][Is+the+UK+GCHQ+operation+getting+internet-savvy.+%231ab.jpg?SSIma
   geQuality=Full]
   Picture: Erdoğan - Don't call me a dictator or I'll imprison your
   journalists.
   [581][The+Prime+Minister+of+Turkey.+Recep+Tayyip+Erdo%C4%9Fan.+Don%27t+
   call+me+a+dictator+or+I%27ll+imprison+your+journalists+and+shut+down+yo
   ur+newspapers.+%231ab.jpg]
   [582]Open letter to The Prime Minister of Turkey
   [583]Recep Tayyip Erdoğan
   Dear Mr Erdogan,
   We, the undersigned, write this letter to most vigorously condemn the
   heavy-handed clamp down of your police forces on the peaceful
   protestors at Taksim Square and Gezi Park in Istanbul, as well as in
   other major cities of Turkey, which, according to the Turkish Medical
   Association, has left 5 people dead, 11 blinded due to indiscriminate
   use of pepper gas, and over 8,000 injured.
   Yet, only days after clearing Taksim Square and Gezi Park relying on
   untold brute force, you held a meeting in Istanbul, reminiscent of the
   Nuremberg Rally, with total disregard for the five dead whose only
   crime was to oppose your dictatorial rule. There are more journalists
   languishing in your prisons than the combined number of those in China
   and Iran. Moreover, you described these protestors as tramps, looters
   and hooligans, even alleging they were foreign-led terrorists. Whereas,
   in reality, they were nothing but youngsters wanting Turkey to remain a
   Secular Republic as designed by its founder Kemal Ataturk.
   Finally, while you aspire to make your country a member of EU, you
   refute all criticism levelled at you by its leaders, on grounds of
   Turkey being a Sovereign State. Notwithstanding, may we respectfully
   remind you, on grounds of the Convention signed on 9 August 1949,
   Turkey is a member of Council of Europe, and by virtue of ratifying the
   European Convention on Human Rights, on May 18 1954, it has also
   indisputably placed itself within the jurisdiction of the European
   Court of Human Rights. Consequently, your orders which led to the
   deaths of five innocent youths, might well constitute a Case to Answer,
   in Strasbourg.
   Yours sincerely,
   Dr. Claire Berlinski (writer)
   Lady Cholmondeley (President - Chopin Society)
   Jeremy Corbyn (Labour MP)
   Maurice Farhi MBE (writer)
   Lord Julian Fellowes (screenwriter, Oscar winner - Gosford Park)
   Jack Fox (actor)
   James Fox (actor)
   Christopher Hampton CBE (playwright, screenwriter, Oscar winner -
   Dangerous Liaisons)
   Rachel Johnson (novelist)
   Fuad Kavur (film maker)
   Sir Ben Kingsley (actor, Oscar winner - Gandhi)
   Edmund Kingsley (actor)
   Branko Lustig (producer, Oscar winner - Schindler's List & Gladiator)
   David Lynch (film director, Palme D’Or - Mulholland Drive)
   Dr Andrew Mango (biographer of Ataturk)
   Marquess of Downshire (landowner)
   Lord Monson (writer)
   Edna O’Brien (writer)
   Hugo Page QC (barrister)
   Sean Penn (actor, director, Oscar winner - Milk & Mystic River)
   Frederic Raphael (writer, Oscar winner - Darling)
   Susan Sarandon (actress, Oscar winner - Dead Man Walking)
   Fazil Say (composer, pianist)
   Christopher Shinn (playwright)
   Dr David Starkey CBE (constitutional historian)
   Sir Tom Stoppard (playwright, screenwriter, Oscar winner -  Shakespeare
   in Love)
   Lord Strathcarron (documentary maker)
   Ronald Thwaites QC (barrister)
   Igor Ustinov (sculptor)
   Vilmos Zsigmond (cinematographer, Oscar winner - Close Encounters).
   24th July 2013
   AB comment: Published as a full-page, paid-for advertisement in The
   Times newspaper (London), there is some dispute about who coordinated
   the signatories to the open letter to Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (text above)
   and who paid for it.
   Ongoing commentary on Erdoğan, political evolution and media
   persecution in Turkey [584]here (20.01.14), [585]here (02.01.14),
   [586]here (28.12.13), [587]here (27.12.13), [588]here (23.11.13),
   [589]here (15.11.13), [590]here (04.10.13), [591]here (30.09.13),
   [592]here (30.09.13), [593]here (16.09.13), [594]here (20.08.13),
   [595]here (20.08.13), [596]here (05.08.13), [597]here (31.07.13),
   [598]here (30.07.13), [599]here (29.07.13), [600]here (26.07.13),
   [601]here (26.07.13), [602]here (26.07.13), [603]here (26.07.13),
   [604]here (25.07.13) and [605]here (25.07.13).
   .
   [606]Wednesday 24th July 2013
   [607]Santiago de Compostela (Spain)
   .

   IFRAME:
   [608]http://www.youtube.com/embed/5ltax00Lkb4?feature=player_detailpage

   Picture: Benjamin Fulford, Chodoin Daikaku and Alexander Romanov. July
   2013.
   [609][Benjamin+Fulford,+White+Dragon+Society.+Chodoin+Daikaku,+Global+M
   artial+Arts.+Alexander+Romanov,+aka+Slasha+Zaric+aka+Richard+Sorge,+Gno
   stic+Illuminati.+July+2013.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: A State of the Union address. Fisher Body 21 Plant, Detroit MI
   48202.
   [610][Fisher+Body+21+Plant,+Detroit+MI+48202.+Yves+Marchand+&amp;+Romai
   n+Meffre.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: Obama gone yet? Statue of Liberty peeps anxiously around its
   plinth.
   [611][Obama+gone+yet.+Statue+of+Liberty+peeps+anxiously+around+its+plin
   th.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: American child asks President Obama about NSA PRISM
   surveillance.
   [612][Young+American+child+asks+US+President+Barack+Obama+about+NSA+PRI
   SM+surveillance.+%231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   Picture: Putin ousts another puppet of the Western Nazi continuum
   (Morsi)
   [613][Putin+ousts+another+puppet+of+the+Western+Nazi+continuum+(Morsi)+
   %231ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full]
   In the corridors of Western power, Vladimir Putin is not popular. He
   has a disconcerting habit of getting things done. Putin, a Russian
   patriot, started to reshape covert geopolitical power structures when
   he and his colleagues moved to stamp out the influence of the
   Rothschild and Rockefeller syndicate maggots at work inside Russia
   after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1989-90.
   These parasites, mostly oligarchs, mummy-got-me-ready chess players,
   and P2 Lodge mafia proxies, were agents of the G7 Nazi continuum. Their
   aim was to secure Russian oil and gas to prop up the US petrodollar
   Ponzi nexus. They failed and, from 1998 onwards, Vladimir Putin made
   sure that they failed publicly.
   Just as the Soviet Union was deliberately collapsed by the G7 élite
   syndicates, it had been deliberately constructed to fail by a previous
   generation of those same puppeteers many decades earlier.
   The EuroZone was another bankster toy. Manufactured to launder unbacked
   fiat paper currency to Asia, it is now being collapsed by the very same
   banksters who set it up in the first place.
   In Western fractional banking, it doesn't matter whether you build up
   or whether you smash down; you make big money each way and in the
   process you generate useful debt to control sovereign treasuries. After
   each collapse there is a fire sale. If you're a banker, you don't just
   buy the dips; you create the dips. Money is the mechanism which makes
   people poor.
   With China and one hundred and eighty other BRICS alliance nations,
   Putin's Russia is teaching the G7 Nazi continuum a rather obvious
   lesson: fiat paper currencies are not money; gold is money.
   What is happening worldwide now is that the BRICS nations are
   accumulating gold and beginning the process of freeing up the trillions
   (some say quadrillions) of dollars' worth of suppressed gold held
   outside the markets in the [614]Global Collateral Accounts.
   The G7, scenting the inevitable capitalist end-game, is rushing around
   trying to counter the BRICS alliance initiatives by rigging the markets
   to keep the price of gold down, by printing trillions of new fake
   dollars and euros on QE computer screens, by squeezing Western
   taxpayers with a media-backed austerity charade, and by accumulating
   off-ledger black-screen accounts which contain impossibly vast
   quadrillions and quintillions of notional syndicate wealth such as that
   found in the Committee of 300's [615]White Spiritual Boy and
   [616]Spiritual Wonder Boy accounts. More [617]here, [618]here and
   [619]here.
   Some say it all started with the [620]Monaco Accords in August 2011;
   others say it started with the World War Two victors' carve-up at
   [621]Bretton Woods in 1944. Still others say that it died with
   America's assassination of her own President in Dallas, Texas, in
   November 1963. [622]John F.Kennedy had become too friendly with M1 in
   Indonesia for Shylock's liking. For the greater good of Western
   banking, it was time for him to die.
   What has all this got to do with Putin and Morsi in Egypt in 2013?
   Everything. It's the same battle: the G7 banking syndicate versus the
   rest of the planet.
   The outfit expediently fronted by Mohamed Morsi in Egypt, and now
   called the Muslim Brotherhood, was founded in 1928 as an Islamic
   revivalist movement with a Wahhabi/Salafi tribal exclusivity. It came
   into being following the collapse of the Ottoman Empire and the
   subsequent banning of the caliphate system of government which, the
   story runs, had united Muslims for centuries.
   In fact, Muslims, like Christians and Jews, had never been united and
   rarely passed up an opportunity to persecute, torture or murder their
   faith opponents in other Islamic culti. As a vehicle of intolerance,
   spiritual fascism and social agitation, the Muslim Brotherhood was
   perfect for sophisticated [623]Nazi manipulation.
   Just before and during the Second World War, the Nazis covertly took
   over the MB and turned it into a controlled terrorist organisation. The
   Third Reich used the Muslim Brotherhood to provide expendable and
   uncritical cannon-fodder to fight against British and French colonial
   influences in the Middle East.
   The Nazi-continuum (the élite Nazi diaspora) is still embedded in
   several major Western governments, is still protected by rogue factions
   within their national security cadres, and it has kept the MB running
   in the background ever since. In the Western view, the radical
   'Islamists' are useful fools to be manipulated, they don't cost much,
   and they can be made angry easily.
   The Muslim Brotherhood, unbeknown to most of its current members, is a
   long-established Middle Eastern street gang which works for the Western
   banking syndicate to create opportunities for financial profit by
   fomenting unnecessary international conflict.
   Its Egyptian branch, when briefly in government for a year between June
   2012 and July 2013, lined up publicly with the private armies of the G7
   war profiteers in an attempt to destabilise Syria. The plan was plain.
   Once Assad had gone, and the country was in ruins, its banks could be
   looted, its oil and gas could be stolen, foreign military bases could
   be established for drug trafficking purposes, and Qatar and Saudi
   Arabia could build their gas pipeline through Syria, unopposed, to
   supply Europe and support the US petrodollar scam.
   Putin and the BRICS alliance saw all this. They agreed that there had
   to be régime change in Syria and that the Assad clique had to go; what
   they didn't want, and would not allow, was another capitalist looting
   fest by the G7 such as they had contrived in Korea, Vietnam, Bosnia,
   Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya.
   Russia plus China, plus a changed Turkey, plus the US Pentagon
   patriots, now have more influence, collectively, within the Egyptian
   military than do the Washington DC private corporation and the City of
   London private corporation.
   The exact division of labour between Russia and China within the BRICS
   alliance adjustment of global geopolitics is yet to become clear. It
   seems that Putin is looking after Europe and the Middle East, while the
   new Chinese leadership is seeing to Asia, Africa and Australia. China,
   for example, is a powerful driving force behind the imminent
   reunification of North and South Korea.
   In Europe, Russia and Germany are privately and quietly growing closer.
   The EuroZone is now seen as a lost cause by most significant
   opinion-makers in Berlin on the simple grounds that it is not in
   Germany's financial interest, any more, to waste time with the little
   people.
   This is particularly the case when one of Germany's biggest commercial
   institutions, Deutsche Bank AG (Frankfurt), has an international
   derivatives exposure of $72.8 trillion. This sum is in excess of twenty
   times more than the total GDP of Germany itself. Faced with a domestic
   ticking time bomb of this nature, Greece, Spain, Italy and, yes,
   France, can go hang.
   The word on the block is that Angela Merkel of Germany is quietly
   pursuing an Ostpolitik with Russia of the kind which was originally
   initiated by [624]Willy Brandt in the 1960s. This will result in a
   Russian/German-led Eurasian Union being slipped into place by 2015.
   In the lead up to this long-desired Eurasian outcome, a new, strong
   currency DeutschmarkZone in Northern Europe is likely to emerge,
   involving Germany, The Netherlands, Luxembourg and Finland. France will
   be consigned to the outer darkness of a local and much-devalued French
   Franc. And Greece, Spain and Italy? They can eat olives. The Western
   banks have finished with them.
   Late note: The brief thirteen month Muslim Brotherhood spell in
   Egyptian government was ended at the beginning of July 2013 by a
   cackhanded and anti-democratic military coup. If ever practical proof
   was needed that the Egyptian revolution was as yet incomplete, this was
   it. Among avoidable own goals scored by the Egyptian military at this
   juncture was the partisan suppression of Islamic media outlets, along
   with CNN and al-Jazeera TV, and the appointment of [625]Mohamed
   ElBaradei as deputy interim president. Indeed, ElBaradei would have
   been shoehorned in as interim prime minister had not the Salafi Nour
   party strenuously blocked the appointment. ElBaradei is well known in
   Middle Eastern diplomatic circles for being a bought-and-paid-for asset
   of Western intelligence and corporate interests.
   More background information about the new emerging geopolitics and
   related disclosures can be found [626]here (21.01.14), [627]here
   (20.01.14), [628]here (14.01.14), [629]here (09.01.14), [630]here
   (06.01.14), [631]here (04.01.14), [632]here (01.01.14), [633]here
   (31.12.13), [634]here (30.12.13), [635]here (28.12.13), [636]here
   (23.12.13), [637]here (16.12.13), [638]here (13.12.13), [639]here
   (13.12.13), [640]here (11.12.13), [641]here (10.12.13), [642]here
   (02.12.13), [643]here (25.11.13), [644]here (23.11.13), [645]here
   (22.11.13), [646]here (22.11.13), [647]here (18.11.13), [648]here
   (11.11.13), [649]here (07.11.13), [650]here (06.11.13), [651]here
   (28.10.13), [652]here (21.10.13), [653]here (21.10.13), [654]here
   (18.10.13), [655]here (15.10.13), [656]here (09.10.13), [657]here
   (07.10.13), [658]here (05.10.13), [659]here (03.10.13), [660]here
   (01.10.13), [661]here (23.09.13), [662]here (23.09.13), [663]here
   (22.09.13), [664]here (19.09.13), [665]here (18.09.13), [666]here
   (18.09.13), [667]here (17.09.13), [668]here (17.09.13), [669]here
   (17.09.13), [670]here (15.09.13), [671]here (12.09.13), [672]here
   (11.09.13), [673]here (10.09.13), [674]here (09.09.13), [675]here
   (08.09.13), [676]here (07.09.13), [677]here (05.09.13), [678]here
   (05.09.13), [679]here (05.09.13), [680]here (04.09.13), [681]here
   (04.09.13), [682]here (03.09.13), [683]here (01.09.13), [684]here
   (27.08.13),  [685]here (26.08.13), [686]here (26.08.13), [687]here
   (20.08.13), [688]here (15.08.13), [689]here (13.08.13), [690]here
   (13.08.13), [691]here (12.08.13), [692]here (12.08.13), [693]here
   (09.08.13), [694]here (06.08.13), [695]here (04.08.13), [696]here
   (01.08.13), [697]here (30.07.13), [698]here (30.07.13),  [699]here
   (26.07.13), [700]here (25.07.13), [701]here (23.07.13), [702]here
   (22.07.13), [703]here (22.07.13), [704]here (21.07.13), [705]here
   (21.07.13), [706]here (19.07.13), [707]here (18.07.13), [708]here
   (17.07.13), [709]here (09.07.13), [710]here (09.07.13), [711]here
   (08.07.13), [712]here (05.07.13), [713]here (03.07.13), [714]here
   (03.07.13), [715]here (03.07.13), [716]here (01.07.13), [717]here
   (30.06.13), [718]here (25.06.13), [719]here (22.06.13), [720]here
   (18.06.13), [721]here (17.06.13), [722]here (17.06.13), [723]here
   (10.06.13), [724]here (08.06.13), [725]here (07.06.13), [726]here
   (04.06.13), [727]here (03.06.13), [728]here (31.05.13), [729]here
   (28.05.13), [730]here (27.05.13), [731]here (25.05.13), [732]here
   (21.05.13), [733]here (20.05.13), [734]here (20.05.13), [735]here
   (14.05.13), [736]here (13.05.13), [737]here (13.05.13), [738]here
   (06.05.13), [739]here (04.05.13), [740]here (01.05.13), [741]here
   (30.04.13), [742]here (30.04.13), [743]here (22.04.13), [744]here
   (19.04.13), [745]here (17.04.13), [746]here (16.04.13), [747]here
   (15.04.13), [748]here (12.04.13), [749]here (10.04.13), [750]here
   (08.04.13), [751]here (07.04.13), [752]here (06.04.13), [753]here
   (03.04.13), [754]here (01.04.13), [755]here (31.03.13), [756]here
   (29.03.13), [757]here (26.03.13), [758]here (25.03.13), [759]here
   (19.03.13), [760]here (18.03.13), [761]here (11.03.13), [762]here
   (05.03.13), [763]here (02.03.13), [764]here (27.02.13), [765]here
   (26.02.13), [766]here (25.02.13), [767]here (18.02.13), [768]here
   (16.02.13), [769]here (13.02.13), [770]here (12.02.13), [771]here
   (11.02.13), [772]here (06.02.13), [773]here (05.02.13), [774]here
   (30.01.13), [775]here (30.01.13), [776]here (28.01.13), [777]here
   (21.01.13), [778]here (20.01.13), [779]here (15.01.13), [780]here
   (14.01.13), [781]here (08.01.13), [782]here (08.01.13), [783]here
   (07.01.13), [784]here (03.01.13), [785]here (02.01.13), [786]here
   (01.01.13), [787]here (30.12.12), [788]here (27.12.12) and [789]here
   (18.08.12).
   [790]Index of blog contents

   Labels: [791]altnews10#1ab, [792]Esoteric spirituality,
   [793]Independent Alternative News, [794]Suppressed global intelligence,
   [795]The Higher Evolution, [796]The opening of Pandora's suitcase

   posted by Alcuin Bramerton at [797]06:17 [798]10 comments

About Me

   [799]My Photo
          Name: [800]Alcuin Bramerton

   Alcuin Bramerton is a human being seeking to operate happily in the
   post-religious world. The New Spirituality interests him. His friend,
   Flutterby, is not in physical incarnation on the Earth-plane at
   present, but he advises Alcuin on spiritual matters. And there is a lot
   happening. Unreported by the mainstream media, a man in a grey suit is
   standing by the yoghurt shelves in a supermarket in Cornwall. He is
   looking for morphine suppositories. This man is not the promised
   messiah. Coincidentally, at another remote location in southern
   England, a man with false teeth is eating a cheese soufflé for lunch.
   He bites on something hard. There is a second pair of false teeth in
   his cheese soufflé. This man is not the promised messiah either.
   Epiphanies of this kind illustrate just how difficult it can be to
   determine the exact size of God in becquerels per cubic light year. But
   still the attempt is made.

   [801]View my complete profile

Previous Posts

     * [802]altnews10#1ab
     * [803]The Future Historians' List
     * [804]NESARA announcements expected in 2014
     * [805]2014 Agenda for Disclosure
     * [806]Index of blog contents
     * [807]Malaysia Airlines MH370: The fin de siècle BlackOp...
     * [808]Statins - the honey in the poison-flower
     * [809]altnews09#1ab
     * [810]Extraterrestrial television hijack - England - Nov...
     * [811]Extraterrestrial symbols of spiritual protection

Archives

     * [812]October 2004
     * [813]November 2004
     * [814]December 2004
     * [815]January 2005
     * [816]February 2005
     * [817]March 2005
     * [818]April 2005
     * [819]May 2005
     * [820]June 2005
     * [821]July 2005
     * [822]August 2005
     * [823]September 2005
     * [824]October 2005
     * [825]November 2005
     * [826]December 2005
     * [827]January 2006
     * [828]March 2006
     * [829]April 2006
     * [830]May 2006
     * [831]June 2006
     * [832]July 2006
     * [833]August 2006
     * [834]September 2006
     * [835]October 2006
     * [836]November 2006
     * [837]December 2006
     * [838]January 2007
     * [839]February 2007
     * [840]March 2007
     * [841]April 2007
     * [842]June 2007
     * [843]July 2007
     * [844]August 2007
     * [845]September 2007
     * [846]October 2007
     * [847]November 2007
     * [848]December 2007
     * [849]January 2008
     * [850]March 2008
     * [851]June 2008
     * [852]April 2009
     * [853]September 2009
     * [854]February 2010
     * [855]April 2010
     * [856]October 2010
     * [857]November 2010
     * [858]January 2011
     * [859]March 2011
     * [860]July 2011
     * [861]August 2011
     * [862]January 2012
     * [863]February 2012
     * [864]April 2012
     * [865]June 2012
     * [866]July 2012
     * [867]August 2012
     * [868]September 2012
     * [869]October 2012
     * [870]November 2012
     * [871]December 2012
     * [872]January 2013
     * [873]February 2013
     * [874]March 2013
     * [875]July 2013
     * [876]September 2013
     * [877]October 2013
     * [878]November 2013
     * [879]December 2013
     * [880]February 2014
     * [881]March 2014
     * [882]April 2014
     * [883]May 2014
     * [884]August 2014
     * [885]September 2014
     * [886]October 2014

   [887]Powered by Blogger
     __________________________________________________________________


   [888]website statistics

References

   Visible links
   1. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/feeds/posts/default
   2. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/feeds/posts/default?alt=rss
   3. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.co.uk/2012/01/altnews101ab.html
   4. http://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton
   5. https://medium.com/@AlcuinBramerton/latest
   6. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2011/03/1ab-archive.html
   7. http://www.blogger.com/profile/14917474523744351041
   8. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.co.uk/2012/09/index-of-blog-contents.html
   9. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/
  10. https://twitter.com/search/realtime?q=#1ab&src=hash
  11. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-ypVmGSVayQs/VBbi_cG6nYI/AAAAAAAAGq8/Ia2q0bH1K0g/s1600/Shanghai+Cooperation+Organization+Summit.+Dushanbe,+Tajikistan.+September+2014.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  12. http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2014-09/13/c_126981598.htm
  13. http://en.sco-russia.ru/commentaries/20140915/1013188794-print.html
  14. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/the-future-historians-list.html
  15. http://ellenbrown.com/2014/08/25/colonization-by-bankruptcy-the-high-stakes-chess-match-for-argentina/
  16. http://ellenbrown.com/2014/08/25/colonization-by-bankruptcy-the-high-stakes-chess-match-for-argentina/
  17. http://justpaste.it/files/justpaste/d89/a4816021/catch.gif
  18. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-q87sYh8abNg/U_XsQM6lcoI/AAAAAAAAGng/yB_oUgInGOw/s1600/Politics+2+by+Pawel+Kuczynski.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  19. http://justpaste.it/best-satirical-images
  20. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Bioweapons?src=hash
  21. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Open?src=hash
  22. https://twitter.com/hashtag/letter?src=hash
  23. https://twitter.com/hashtag/VladimirPutin?src=hash
  24. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ebola?src=hash
  25. http://t.co/2l37cdVgxW
  26. https://twitter.com/hashtag/1ab?src=hash
  27. https://twitter.com/hashtag/MSF?src=hash
  28. https://twitter.com/hashtag/NHS?src=hash
  29. https://twitter.com/hashtag/FortDetrick?src=hash
  30. https://twitter.com/hashtag/PortonDown?src=hash
  31. https://twitter.com/hashtag/GCHQ?src=hash
  32. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Cheltenham?src=hash
  33. https://twitter.com/hashtag/AU?src=hash
  34. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/499847436777431040
  35. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Élite?src=hash
  36. https://twitter.com/hashtag/disinformation?src=hash
  37. https://twitter.com/hashtag/More?src=hash
  38. https://twitter.com/hashtag/UK?src=hash
  39. https://twitter.com/hashtag/GCHQ?src=hash
  40. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Art?src=hash
  41. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Deception?src=hash
  42. https://twitter.com/hashtag/powerpoint?src=hash
  43. http://t.co/78lf5zcV1T
  44. https://twitter.com/hashtag/1ab?src=hash
  45. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Cheltenham?src=hash
  46. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Windsor?src=hash
  47. https://twitter.com/hashtag/FalseFlag?src=hash
  48. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/500173090308231168
  49. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Geopolitics?src=hash
  50. https://twitter.com/hashtag/post?src=hash
  51. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Zionist?src=hash
  52. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Israel?src=hash
  53. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Jewish?src=hash
  54. https://twitter.com/hashtag/autonomous?src=hash
  55. https://twitter.com/hashtag/zone?src=hash
  56. https://twitter.com/hashtag/new?src=hash
  57. https://twitter.com/hashtag/MidEast?src=hash
  58. https://twitter.com/hashtag/caliphate?src=hash
  59. http://t.co/UYMh6olsEB
  60. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/500926945513988097
  61. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-SM-kJMFuR7c/UlPUFnOs8gI/AAAAAAAAGPk/YDo1n8W8bvc/s1600/Putin+sitting+on+Obama+shoulders.+US+Russia+summit.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  62. http://ronpaulinstitute.org/archives/featured-articles/2014/august/10/us-sanctions-on-russia-may-sink-the-dollar.aspx
  63. http://ronpaulinstitute.org/about-us.aspx
  64. https://twitter.com/RonPaul
  65. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-7luMiG7FHkI/U99TQ-J8UEI/AAAAAAAAGlA/R1l0QieeJX4/s1600/Venn+diagram.+Jesus,+Dracula+&+Frankenstein.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  66. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash
  67. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Kyiv?src=hash
  68. https://twitter.com/hashtag/fake?src=hash
  69. https://twitter.com/hashtag/up?src=hash
  70. https://twitter.com/hashtag/satellite?src=hash
  71. https://twitter.com/hashtag/data?src=hash
  72. https://twitter.com/hashtag/MH17?src=hash
  73. https://twitter.com/hashtag/atrocity?src=hash
  74. https://twitter.com/hashtag/blame?src=hash
  75. http://t.co/y7cLjSXSlo
  76. https://twitter.com/hashtag/1ab?src=hash
  77. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Odessa?src=hash
  78. https://twitter.com/hashtag/Lviv?src=hash
  79. https://twitter.com/hashtag/EU?src=hash
  80. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/495507207803658240
  81. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-mT7meTxiinE/Uk0kKxJU7mI/AAAAAAAAGOw/1xwtKDE5K8o/s1600/It's+time+for+a+Muslim+holocaust,+Barry.+Binyamin+Netanyahu+and+Barack+Obama.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  82. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/belief/2014/jul/25/just-war-then-why-not-just-terrorism
  83. http://rehmat1.com/2014/07/26/uk-jewish-mp-israel-was-born-out-of-jewish-terrorism/
  84. http://www.presstv.ir/detail/2014/07/30/373426/bolivia-labels-israel-terrorist-regime/
  85. http://beforeitsnews.com/alternative/2014/08/zionists-must-start-ww3-or-they-lose-veteranstoday-3005862.html
  86. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-wx3hsTh4tco/U8zQb3ziBGI/AAAAAAAAGjI/YqTRBGp-ASM/s1600/The+US+State+of+Israel.+Killing+Muslims+for+Jesus.+Palestine+July+2014.+(2)+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  87. http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-wtzxEIxVpgA/U8zPRT7AEeI/AAAAAAAAGiw/H8q244pDBy8/s1600/Palestine+July+2014.+Gaza+genocide+(3)+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  88. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-ExQW_POUgsc/U8zPsGzxPjI/AAAAAAAAGi4/DUbWDxKrCws/s1600/Palestine+July+2014.+Gaza+genocide+(4)+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  89. http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-kH7qkKXujxU/U7fmniSCuzI/AAAAAAAAGiM/2-eGxqcFNXY/s1600/Vladimir+Putin+looking+glum+with+Angela+Merkel.+Russia.+Germany.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  90. http://eng.kremlin.ru/news/22586
  91. http://eng.kremlin.ru/news/22586
  92. http://rt.com/business/168620-china-world-bank-own/
  93. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-2FIazy7XDkc/U62em2FCdKI/AAAAAAAAGhs/uqMkQKVw2us/s1600/Chinese+premier,+Li+Keqiang,+London,+UK.+June+2014.+#1ab+Plus+David+Cameron,+British+Prime+Minister.+(2)+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
  94. http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2014-06/21/c_133426262.htm
  95. http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2014-06/21/c_133426262.htm
  96. http://www.theguardian.com/education/2014/jun/16/british-values-multiculturalism-magna-carta
  97. http://www.theguardian.com/education/2014/jun/16/british-values-multiculturalism-magna-carta
  98. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/jun/20/michael-gove-caesar-schooling-system-trojan-horse-british-values
  99. http://www.theguardian.com/education/2014/jun/19/governors-academies-free-schools-british-values-michael-gove
 100. http://www.theguardian.com/politics/2014/jun/18/david-cameron-dominic-cummings-career-psychopath
 101. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 102. https://twitter.com/search?q=#corporation&src=hash
 103. https://twitter.com/search?q=#FalseFlags&src=hash
 104. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SandyHook&src=hash
 105. https://twitter.com/search?q=#PsyOps&src=hash
 106. https://twitter.com/search?q=#drill&src=hash
 107. http://t.co/FpV9ohpscw
 108. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 109. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SCOTUS&src=hash
 110. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/478052033313116160
 111. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 112. https://twitter.com/search?q=#corporation&src=hash
 113. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Why&src=hash
 114. https://twitter.com/search?q=#feeding&src=hash
 115. https://twitter.com/search?q=#homeless&src=hash
 116. https://twitter.com/search?q=#criminalised&src=hash
 117. https://twitter.com/search?q=#US&src=hash
 118. https://twitter.com/search?q=#cities&src=hash
 119. http://t.co/WxEqWu9SR7
 120. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 121. https://twitter.com/search?q=#TeamJesus&src=hash
 122. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Pontifex&src=hash
 123. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1D&src=hash
 124. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/477719817227890688
 125. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-june-10-2014-emergency-meetings-of-western-elite-fail-to-break-financial-deadlock-us-implosion-now-looms/
 126. http://www.zerohedge.com/print/news/2014-06-05/nirp-has-arrived-europe-officially-enters-monetary-twilight-zone
 127. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/may/30/denamrk-cotes-meat-balls-party-ordinary-dpp
 128. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Debt&src=hash
 129. https://twitter.com/search?q=#currency&src=hash
 130. https://twitter.com/search?q=#BoE&src=hash
 131. https://twitter.com/search?q=#firesale&src=hash
 132. https://twitter.com/search?q=#UK&src=hash
 133. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 134. https://twitter.com/search?q=#reserves&src=hash
 135. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 136. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AskBoE&src=hash
 137. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/472331604653006848
 138. http://www.theguardian.com/politics/2014/may/18/state-markets-work-together-ed-miliband
 139. http://www.theguardian.com/politics/2014/may/18/state-markets-work-together-ed-miliband
 140. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007/08/statins-honey-in-poison-flower.html
 141. https://medium.com/p/93afa170f904
 142. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Russia&src=hash
 143. https://twitter.com/search?q=#colonise&src=hash
 144. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Moon&src=hash
 145. http://t.co/THruIviiUG
 146. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 147. https://twitter.com/search?q=#BRICS&src=hash
 148. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 149. https://twitter.com/search?q=#astronomy&src=hash
 150. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/464637046267863040
 151. https://twitter.com/search?q=#EU&src=hash
 152. https://twitter.com/search?q=#London&src=hash
 153. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Zurich&src=hash
 154. https://twitter.com/search?q=#stolen&src=hash
 155. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 156. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Asia&src=hash
 157. https://twitter.com/search?q=#EUR&src=hash
 158. https://twitter.com/search?q=#banking&src=hash
 159. https://twitter.com/search?q=#cartel&src=hash
 160. http://t.co/L5Vo9TGBRF
 161. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 162. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Au&src=hash
 163. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/464632036809273344
 164. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 165. https://twitter.com/search?q=#corporation&src=hash
 166. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Benghazi&src=hash
 167. https://twitter.com/search?q=#FalseFlag&src=hash
 168. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Kerry&src=hash
 169. https://twitter.com/search?q=#runs&src=hash
 170. https://twitter.com/search?q=#away&src=hash
 171. https://twitter.com/search?q=#US&src=hash
 172. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Congress&src=hash
 173. https://twitter.com/search?q=#subpoena&src=hash
 174. http://t.co/rbEl48MzcC
 175. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 176. https://twitter.com/search?q=#House&src=hash
 177. https://twitter.com/search?q=#WH&src=hash
 178. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SCOTUS&src=hash
 179. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 180. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/463930305792204800
 181. http://www.sunstar.com.ph/breaking-news/2014/04/23/anti-obama-protesters-clash-manila-police-339424
 182. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/malaysia-airlines-mh370-fin-de-siecle.html
 183. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/the-future-historians-list.html
 184. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2014/04/09/regarding-malaysian-mh370-by-peter-eyre-april-8-2014/
 185. http://divinecosmos.com/start-here/davids-blog/1159-flight-370
 186. http://www.globalresearch.ca/search?q=Kuala+Lumpur+War+Crimes+Tribunal
 187. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-F3RU6ygGJm4/U1UmcUPIBwI/AAAAAAAAGdQ/HR_TXy4anmE/s1600/(detail+of)+United+States+Patent+8,671,381B1.+Wang+et+al.+March+11th+2014.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 188. http://www.leurenmoret.info/currents/flight-370-downing.html
 189. http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/mh370-hijacked-afghanistan-russian-intelligence-3407468
 190. http://www.presstv.com/detail/2014/04/22/359566/missing-plane-mystery-solved/
 191. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-P7V8OVY-V7A/U1QjnTtzl1I/AAAAAAAAGc4/yowehAE49Gk/s1600/Is+this+a+cloned+version+of+Malaysia+Airlines+MH370+at+Tel+Aviv+airport,+Israel,+in+March+2014.+Or+not.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 192. http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-ZLXaVp9t1O8/U1QkLtUPMxI/AAAAAAAAGdA/qSIie1skZb4/s1600/The+Netherlands+hosted+the+Nuclear+Security+Summit+in+The+Hague+on+Monday+24th+and+Tuesday+25th+March+2014.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 193. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-apr-14-2014-surrender-or-die-that-is-the-choice-the-us-cabal-government-now-faces/
 194. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/malaysia-airlines-mh370-fin-de-siecle.html
 195. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-CWX8gseaxLM/U1KPJQuCGII/AAAAAAAAGco/q2G-2HEOR8s/s1600/Other+worlds.+Other+dimensions.+Other+spiritualities.+#1ab+(2).jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 196. https://medium.com/p/4766ad75c02c
 197. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007/08/extraterrestrial-television-hijack.html
 198. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/the-future-historians-list.html
 199. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Geopolitics&src=hash
 200. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Russia&src=hash
 201. https://twitter.com/search?q=#offered&src=hash
 202. https://twitter.com/search?q=#west&src=hash
 203. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Ukraine&src=hash
 204. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Poland&src=hash
 205. http://t.co/4Q56P6X3xm
 206. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 207. https://twitter.com/search?q=#fx&src=hash
 208. https://twitter.com/search?q=#forex&src=hash
 209. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 210. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 211. https://twitter.com/search?q=#EU&src=hash
 212. https://twitter.com/search?q=#UN&src=hash
 213. https://twitter.com/search?q=#ForSale&src=hash
 214. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/453430216455901184
 215. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 216. https://twitter.com/search?q=#corporation&src=hash
 217. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Pentagon&src=hash
 218. https://twitter.com/search?q=#want&src=hash
 219. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G7&src=hash
 220. https://twitter.com/search?q=#banking&src=hash
 221. https://twitter.com/search?q=#cartel&src=hash
 222. http://t.co/uhMh2608IO
 223. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 224. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SCOTUS&src=hash
 225. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 226. https://twitter.com/search?q=#fx&src=hash
 227. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/453085802906796032
 228. https://medium.com/p/804d6cd552da
 229. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/apr/01/grimsby-channel-4-skint-documentary-benefits-street
 230. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-V3iUVZHGgH0/UzwTS9zl9_I/AAAAAAAAGXg/ViWKe1VwPcA/s1600/Greater+Periwinkle+2.+Vinca+major+.+Apocynaceae.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 231. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-gKiACBIH8_w/UzwTxXsG_tI/AAAAAAAAGXo/Y54gBc-c-oQ/s1600/Greater+Periwinkle+3.+Vinca+major+.+Apocynaceae.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 232. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-BN9ZMlS-b80/UzwUNu8jncI/AAAAAAAAGXw/kLXZFDd8XoA/s1600/Greater+Periwinkle+4.+Vinca+major+.+Apocynaceae.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 233. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-7Dv6fOlMJO4/UzwUwSSAfDI/AAAAAAAAGX8/6KeyuCNeiZA/s1600/Greater+Periwinkle+5.+Vinca+major+.+Apocynaceae.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 234. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-xSvj5Ksxlh0/UzwVXjABJsI/AAAAAAAAGYE/fv_FMmmy6JQ/s1600/Greater+Periwinkle+6.+Vinca+major+.+Apocynaceae.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 235. http://www.cambridge.org/gb/academic/subjects/life-sciences/botanical-reference/new-flora-british-isles-3rd-edition
 236. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Research&src=hash
 237. https://twitter.com/search?q=#BlackOps&src=hash
 238. https://twitter.com/search?q=#insectiform&src=hash
 239. https://twitter.com/search?q=#assassination&src=hash
 240. https://twitter.com/search?q=#drone&src=hash
 241. http://t.co/3dGjodRLrn
 242. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 243. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Montreal&src=hash
 244. https://twitter.com/search?q=#fx&src=hash
 245. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1D&src=hash
 246. http://t.co/LqgTeyMzU8
 247. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/449144738944266240
 248. https://medium.com/p/c9701fc023b1
 249. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Palestine&src=hash
 250. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Weiss&src=hash
 251. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Torah&src=hash
 252. https://twitter.com/search?q=#oppress&src=hash
 253. https://twitter.com/search?q=#people&src=hash
 254. https://twitter.com/search?q=#steal&src=hash
 255. https://twitter.com/search?q=#land&src=hash
 256. http://t.co/9tZOdAbeRo
 257. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 258. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/448015684162048000
 259. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Ukraine&src=hash
 260. https://twitter.com/search?q=#debt&src=hash
 261. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Kyiv&src=hash
 262. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Moscow&src=hash
 263. http://t.co/COptRDUfSp
 264. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 265. https://twitter.com/search?q=#fx&src=hash
 266. https://twitter.com/search?q=#forex&src=hash
 267. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 268. https://twitter.com/search?q=#metals&src=hash
 269. https://twitter.com/search?q=#oil&src=hash
 270. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gas&src=hash
 271. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 272. https://twitter.com/search?q=#EU&src=hash
 273. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Odesa&src=hash
 274. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Lviv&src=hash
 275. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Kharkov&src=hash
 276. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/447979789279059968
 277. http://eng.kremlin.ru/news/6889
 278. http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-TOlHcewYVrA/UxQqnrDl8YI/AAAAAAAAGWA/tFxNZnFsbGU/s1600/Don't+worry,+Ukraine.+Your+saviours+are+coming+from+the+West.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 279. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-mar-3-2014-secret-cabal-surrender-negotiations-continue-as-their-ukraine-bluff-is-called-after-an-exchange-of-nuclear-threats/
 280. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-IBF28Z4sQXM/UbTt4wwgSVI/AAAAAAAAGF4/47T4RnZhfjc/s1600/Edward+Snowden+(29),+American+patriot,+CIA+technician,+Booz+Allen+Hamilton+NSA+PRISM+Whistleblower.+#1ab..jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 281. http://www.theguardian.com/books/2014/feb/21/on-liberty-edward-snowden-freedom
 282. http://www.chinadailyasia.com/news/2014-02/21/content_15119683.html
 283. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Ukraine&src=hash
 284. https://twitter.com/search?q=#EU&src=hash
 285. https://twitter.com/search?q=#US&src=hash
 286. https://twitter.com/search?q=#agents&src=hash
 287. https://twitter.com/search?q=#funding&src=hash
 288. https://twitter.com/search?q=#subversion&src=hash
 289. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Kyiv&src=hash
 290. http://t.co/MjTLRF2PPL
 291. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 292. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Odesa&src=hash
 293. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Lviv&src=hash
 294. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Kharkiv&src=hash
 295. https://twitter.com/search?q=#debt&src=hash
 296. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Constitution&src=hash
 297. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/436024628566175745
 298. http://rt.com/news/activists-internet-protests-fight-440/
 299. http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-YMGMzfaJqQg/UvSvCzksJII/AAAAAAAAGUI/Kq9MEisxlc8/s1600/Bosnia+protests.+February+2014.+#1ab+(2).jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 300. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-_gH7q8_60b0/UvRwjPDdOyI/AAAAAAAAGTw/VwyRJAnkPn8/s1600/RAF+Menwith+Hill,+North+Yorkshire,+England,+UK.+US+NSA+mass+surveillance+facility.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 301. http://www.whistleblower.org/blog/48-2014/3160-full-transcript-of-12614-snowden-television-interview-with-german-journalist-hubert-seifel
 302. http://www.whistleblower.org/blog/48-2014/3160-full-transcript-of-12614-snowden-television-interview-with-german-journalist-hubert-seifel
 303. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-XVdXevUIUcM/Utv24cAOnFI/AAAAAAAAGTY/EmI1UxZo1Lk/s1600/Neil+Keenan+letter+to+German+Chancellor+Angela+Merkel+on+1st+January+2014+about+Nazi+gold+stolen+from+USA+in+the+early+1930s+-+full+text+-+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 304. http://jhaines6.files.wordpress.com/2014/01/merkel_p1.jpg?w=640&h=828?SSImageQuality=Full
 305. http://jhaines6.files.wordpress.com/2014/01/merkel_p2.jpg?w=640&h=828?SSImageQuality=Full
 306. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2014/01/04/neil-keenan-update-2014-the-nk-group-strikes-back/
 307. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-BNgIH4mF3-s/UsLY_sDftJI/AAAAAAAAGS8/rre6NIH0tkw/s1600/Glenn+Greenwald.+Edward+Snowden.+NSA.+GCHQ.+Personal+privacy+and+the+deep+unelected+security+state.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 308. https://github.com/poppingtonic/greenwald-30c3-keynote/blob/master/transcript/transcript.md
 309. http://www.impossible.com/
 310. https://twitter.com/search?q=#JoeBiden&src=hash
 311. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Seoul&src=hash
 312. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Asian&src=hash
 313. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 314. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G5&src=hash
 315. http://t.co/wA5DkaM0bd
 316. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 317. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 318. https://twitter.com/search?q=#CDU&src=hash
 319. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/411222765706809344
 320. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-be_BUwDW7t8/UeP7p1QfkxI/AAAAAAAAGIY/le3cfGYTHLs/s1600/I+Spy+You.+No+Brazilian+is+safe+from+the+digital+surveillance+of+the+US+Government.+Brazilian+news+magazine.+June-July+2013.+#1ab+(3).jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 321. http://97.74.205.113/
 322. http://reformgovernmentsurveillance.com/
 323. http://97.74.205.113/
 324. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-dD01nGUTLOo/UqRT405dlgI/AAAAAAAAGSU/msx1yVQ76_E/s1600/Democracy.+Two+wolves+and+a+sheep+voting+on+what+is+for+dinner.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 325. http://www.bangkokpost.com/opinion/opinion/383718/an-agnostic-view-of-the-democracy-cult
 326. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/nov/05/russell-brand-democratic-system-newsnight
 327. http://www.newstatesman.com/politics/2013/10/russell-brand-on-revolution
 328. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-BC9NDuIHpaU/UpdPHXHNRPI/AAAAAAAAGR8/2BQ-S6nZX0I/s1600/Graffiti+on+back+of+ladies'+toilet+door+in+church.+God+is+Love,+but+Satan+does+that+thing+you+like+with+his+tongue.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 329. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-4bLI7hGh_j8/Uo53OkwiM_I/AAAAAAAAGRs/UieXfXK_NWQ/s1600/UK+and+US+spy+chiefs+under+fire+for+illegal+mass+surveillance+programmes.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 330. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/nov/26/bulgaria-student-protest-corruption
 331. http://www.buzzfeed.com/ryanhatesthis/the-powerful-story-behind-this-photo-of-a-police-officer-and
 332. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-QjEv7bFzCIM/T5zgQxwSMaI/AAAAAAAABWw/_-jFEPYwu_c/s1600/You+are+a+big+boy.+Do+you+want+me+to+come+out+and+play..jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 333. file://www.youtube.com/embed/aZMbTFNp4wI
 334. http://www.cpj.org/2013/10/saudi-columnist-held-without-charge-for-four-days.php
 335. http://saudiwomendriving.blogspot.com/
 336. http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/2013/10/shifting-gear-saudi-women-defy-driving-ban-20131027132853713829.html
 337. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/oct/27/saudia-arabian-women-drivers-campaign-ban
 338. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-24658753
 339. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AskBoris&src=typd&f=realtime
 340. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/oct/23/merkel-nsa-phone-allies-enemies
 341. https://twitter.com/search?q=#US&src=hash
 342. https://twitter.com/search?q=#quietly&src=hash
 343. https://twitter.com/search?q=#sold&src=hash
 344. https://twitter.com/search?q=#JPMorgan&src=hash
 345. https://twitter.com/search?q=#China&src=hash
 346. http://t.co/8wnZdEsEY8
 347. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 348. https://twitter.com/search?q=#forex&src=hash
 349. https://twitter.com/search?q=#fx&src=hash
 350. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 351. https://twitter.com/search?q=#silver&src=hash
 352. https://twitter.com/search?q=#banks&src=hash
 353. https://twitter.com/search?q=#OWS&src=hash
 354. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1u&src=hash
 355. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AskBoE&src=hash
 356. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AJE&src=hash
 357. https://twitter.com/search?q=#r4today&src=hash
 358. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/392515678751555584
 359. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Pentagon&src=hash
 360. https://twitter.com/search?q=#BlackOps&src=hash
 361. https://twitter.com/search?q=#nukes&src=hash
 362. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Dyess&src=hash
 363. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AFB&src=hash
 364. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Texas&src=hash
 365. https://twitter.com/search?q=#FalseFlag&src=hash
 366. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SC&src=hash
 367. http://t.co/G4NrxGDzAC
 368. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 369. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/392507544196751360
 370. http://rt.com/op-edge/uk-mi5-parker-intelligence-missing-977/
 371. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/status/386785527602495488
 372. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-SM-kJMFuR7c/UlPUFnOs8gI/AAAAAAAAGPk/YDo1n8W8bvc/s1600/Putin+sitting+on+Obama+shoulders.+US+Russia+summit.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 373. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/oct/05/iran-ayatollah-ali-khamenei
 374. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-mT7meTxiinE/Uk0kKxJU7mI/AAAAAAAAGOw/1xwtKDE5K8o/s1600/It's+time+for+a+Muslim+holocaust,+Barry.+Binyamin+Netanyahu+and+Barack+Obama.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 375. http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-aaAwDR6vt0w/Ukx2Go2TjGI/AAAAAAAAGOg/4i0aSwqtPM8/s1600/Mystic+Mug.+I+see+Iran's+nuclear+weapons.+Binyamin+Netanyahu.+Prime+Minister+of+Israel.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 376. https://twitter.com/search?q=#covert&src=hash
 377. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Cyprus&src=hash
 378. https://twitter.com/search?q=#wealth&src=hash
 379. https://twitter.com/search?q=#confiscation&src=hash
 380. https://twitter.com/search?q=#world&src=hash
 381. http://t.co/nmgnr4axZ8
 382. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 383. https://twitter.com/search?q=#fx&src=hash
 384. https://twitter.com/search?q=#forex&src=hash
 385. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 386. https://twitter.com/search?q=#banks&src=hash
 387. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Madrid&src=hash
 388. https://twitter.com/search?q=#p2&src=hash
 389. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/383443548097359873
 390. https://twitter.com/search?q=#US&src=hash
 391. https://twitter.com/search?q=#mass&src=hash
 392. https://twitter.com/search?q=#opinion&src=hash
 393. https://twitter.com/search?q=#management&src=hash
 394. https://twitter.com/search?q=#trying&src=hash
 395. https://twitter.com/search?q=#suppress&src=hash
 396. https://twitter.com/search?q=#citizen&src=hash
 397. https://twitter.com/search?q=#journalism&src=hash
 398. http://t.co/aAYIpr5jxe
 399. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 400. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Moscow&src=hash
 401. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Beijing&src=hash
 402. https://twitter.com/search?q=#p2&src=hash
 403. https://twitter.com/search?q=#GOP&src=hash
 404. https://twitter.com/search?q=#e&src=hash
 405. https://twitter.com/search?q=#i&src=hash
 406. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/383433749200793600
 407. https://twitter.com/search?q=#UK&src=hash
 408. https://twitter.com/search?q=#narcolepsy&src=hash
 409. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Pandemrix&src=hash
 410. https://twitter.com/search?q=#swine&src=hash
 411. https://twitter.com/search?q=#flu&src=hash
 412. https://twitter.com/search?q=#jab&src=hash
 413. https://twitter.com/search?q=#compensation&src=hash
 414. http://t.co/VxOduoUY6i
 415. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 416. https://twitter.com/search?q=#vaccine&src=hash
 417. https://twitter.com/search?q=#GSK&src=hash
 418. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/383430621487300608
 419. http://www.theguardian.com/stage/2013/sep/20/richard-eyre-spirit-ibsen-ghosts
 420. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-vBqjaUCwHV8/UDKjcHy56jI/AAAAAAAAC9E/F7XaZZc-idg/s1600/JPMorgan+Bank+-+Blue+Book+-+The+Secret+Book+of+Redemption+-+1934+edition+%281%29.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 421. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-SYs0GVxJCIQ/UjoBqsOBVlI/AAAAAAAAGNs/Ne0Ie464jvU/s1600/Neil+Keenan.+16th+September+2013.+Books+will+be+opened.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 422. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4AJNmgpn6qU#t=20
 423. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l1rsvTDN4p0
 424. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 425. https://twitter.com/search?q=#stolen&src=hash
 426. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Indonesia&src=hash
 427. https://twitter.com/search?q=#HongKong&src=hash
 428. http://t.co/kZxvlORESu
 429. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 430. https://twitter.com/search?q=#fx&src=hash
 431. https://twitter.com/search?q=#forex&src=hash
 432. https://twitter.com/search?q=#silver&src=hash
 433. https://twitter.com/search?q=#IMF&src=hash
 434. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 435. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/380254055789912064
 436. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-uA276yzJN2c/Ujitq99CAJI/AAAAAAAAGNM/-mzFM8t3ywA/s1600/US+Federal+Reserve+Bond+Mother+Box+internal+view.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 437. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Federal&src=hash
 438. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Reserve&src=hash
 439. http://t.co/slDPK4rDAK
 440. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 441. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Rockefeller&src=hash
 442. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Fed&src=hash
 443. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 444. https://twitter.com/search?q=#fx&src=hash
 445. https://twitter.com/search?q=#forex&src=hash
 446. https://twitter.com/search?q=#gold&src=hash
 447. https://twitter.com/search?q=#silver&src=hash
 448. https://twitter.com/search?q=#OWS&src=hash
 449. https://twitter.com/search?q=#p2&src=hash
 450. https://twitter.com/search?q=#GOP&src=hash
 451. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1u&src=hash
 452. https://twitter.com/search?q=#NSA&src=hash
 453. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/380013544508379138
 454. http://eng.kremlin.ru/news/5967
 455. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Obama&src=hash
 456. https://twitter.com/search?q=#WH&src=hash
 457. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Syria&src=hash
 458. https://twitter.com/search?q=#chemo&src=hash
 459. https://twitter.com/search?q=#intel&src=hash
 460. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Congress&src=hash
 461. http://t.co/SPa0sM3wzq
 462. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 463. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 464. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SCOTUS&src=hash
 465. https://twitter.com/search?q=#UN&src=hash
 466. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 467. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Moscow&src=hash
 468. https://twitter.com/search?q=#e&src=hash
 469. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/376383890937503745
 470. https://twitter.com/search?q=#status&src=hash
 471. https://twitter.com/search?q=#US&src=hash
 472. https://twitter.com/search?q=#intel&src=hash
 473. https://twitter.com/search?q=#vets&src=hash
 474. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Obama&src=hash
 475. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Assad&src=hash
 476. https://twitter.com/search?q=#deploy&src=hash
 477. https://twitter.com/search?q=#chemos&src=hash
 478. http://t.co/GX2nAvrf1s
 479. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 480. https://twitter.com/search?q=#UN&src=hash
 481. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 482. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Moscow&src=hash
 483. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/376381630723526656
 484. https://twitter.com/search?q=#real&src=hash
 485. https://twitter.com/search?q=#problem&src=hash
 486. https://twitter.com/search?q=#US&src=hash
 487. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AIPAC&src=hash
 488. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Syria&src=hash
 489. http://t.co/5iZ2TcpKX3
 490. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 491. https://twitter.com/search?q=#DC&src=hash
 492. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SCOTUS&src=hash
 493. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1u&src=hash
 494. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Damascus&src=hash
 495. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Homs&src=hash
 496. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Moscow&src=hash
 497. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 498. https://twitter.com/search?q=#UN&src=hash
 499. https://twitter.com/search?q=#IDF&src=hash
 500. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/376376106649022464
 501. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-ZAFzTZQo7nw/UioCBEeo6CI/AAAAAAAAGMk/XxAgJk2H4PU/s1600/Who+were+these+two+security+personnel+at+the+AIPAC+conference+in+Washington+DC+on+Monday+5th+March+2012.+Entity+One+&+Entity+Two.+#1ab.+2..jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 502. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tb8mU_g_f2w
 503. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sswquNwXI-E
 504. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Global&src=hash
 505. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Court&src=hash
 506. http://t.co/75phyqpPrD
 507. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 508. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 509. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SCOTUS&src=hash
 510. https://twitter.com/search?q=#MSF&src=hash
 511. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AJE&src=hash
 512. https://twitter.com/search?q=#r4today&src=hash
 513. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/375489564166475776
 514. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/--CxA7p28idg/UigpFyo32RI/AAAAAAAAGMI/nyVPvgws_g4/s1600/US+Senator+John+McCain+and+Poker+cards+with+Israeli+Prime+Minister+Binyamin+Netanyahu.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 515. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Keenan&src=hash
 516. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Jakarta&src=hash
 517. https://twitter.com/search?q=#sovereign&src=hash
 518. https://twitter.com/search?q=#diplomatic&src=hash
 519. https://twitter.com/search?q=#immunity&src=hash
 520. http://t.co/norZPGPZNH
 521. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 522. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 523. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AJE&src=hash
 524. https://twitter.com/search?q=#r4today&src=hash
 525. https://twitter.com/search?q=#e&src=hash
 526. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/375273406284828673
 527. https://twitter.com/search?q=#UK&src=hash
 528. https://twitter.com/search?q=#David&src=hash
 529. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Cameron&src=hash
 530. https://twitter.com/search?q=#office&src=hash
 531. http://t.co/HbIra7kvDI
 532. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 533. https://twitter.com/search?q=#EU&src=hash
 534. https://twitter.com/search?q=#ECB&src=hash
 535. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 536. https://twitter.com/search?q=#SCOTUS&src=hash
 537. https://twitter.com/search?q=#GBP&src=hash
 538. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Tories&src=hash
 539. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Witney&src=hash
 540. https://twitter.com/search?q=#e&src=hash
 541. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/375162580664197121
 542. https://twitter.com/search?q=#BRICS&src=hash
 543. https://twitter.com/search?q=#alliance&src=hash
 544. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Court&src=hash
 545. http://t.co/iDxspTKNNQ
 546. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 547. https://twitter.com/search?q=#G20&src=hash
 548. https://twitter.com/search?q=#EU&src=hash
 549. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AJE&src=hash
 550. https://twitter.com/search?q=#r4today&src=hash
 551. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/374410411673518080
 552. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-K-swr2Gg9W0/Uh-ioBj0vCI/AAAAAAAAGLg/Ntq1Pnniu08/s1600/Ain+Tarma,+Damascus,+Syria.+Wednesday+28th+August+2013.+UN+chemical+weapons+experts.+We're+from+the+UN.+We've+come+to+help.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 553. https://twitter.com/search?q=#AdnanSacly&src=hash
 554. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Asia&src=hash
 555. https://twitter.com/search?q=#why&src=hash
 556. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Vatican&src=hash
 557. https://twitter.com/search?q=#CIA&src=hash
 558. https://twitter.com/search?q=#after&src=hash
 559. http://t.co/IzPePSNR2L
 560. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 561. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Jakarta&src=hash
 562. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Manila&src=hash
 563. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Bangkok&src=hash
 564. https://twitter.com/search?q=#IMF&src=hash
 565. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/372691738663456768
 566. https://twitter.com/search?q=#ChuckHagel&src=hash
 567. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Jakarta&src=hash
 568. https://twitter.com/search?q=#intel&src=hash
 569. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Syria&src=hash
 570. http://t.co/7TNWVCjiYj
 571. https://twitter.com/search?q=#1ab&src=hash
 572. https://twitter.com/search?q=#Indonesia&src=hash
 573. https://twitter.com/AlcuinBramerton/statuses/372208885571940352
 574. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-OiNL-y5VY7o/UhEumRFD9qI/AAAAAAAAGLI/79rL8IEYxlQ/s1600/The+stinking+vile+effluent+flowing+from+those+who+would+make+you+slaves+to+their+whims+is+flowing+across+the+Earth+in+virulent+thought-forms.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 575. http://www.selftransform.net/Ascension_Symptoms.htm
 576. http://groups.yahoo.com/group/DiscerningAngels/message/73890
 577. http://www.luisprada.com/Protected/a_biography_of_saint_germain.htm
 578. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/08/09/neil-keenan-update-game-changer-global-account-titans-support-keenan-as-point-man-world-bank-exposѐ-unravels-cabal-control/
 579. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-Hl3uBc6Dr4M/UfmICS9oFQI/AAAAAAAAGKY/CCHxlsS4fFI/s1600/Lewinsky.+Cheney.+Bush.+Clinton.+I+have+a+dick.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 580. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-P774kfkMKV8/UfY83yMMefI/AAAAAAAAGKA/6Xpk5ci6XFA/s1600/William+Hague.+UK+Foreign+Secretary.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 581. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-axWzUwcgvck/UfOHftNaKbI/AAAAAAAAGJo/YaTMqPk0K6Y/s1600/The+Prime+Minister+of+Turkey.+Recep+Tayyip+Erdoğan.+European+accident+waiting+to+happen.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 582. http://www.hurriyet.com.tr/_np/0795/20890795.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 583. http://www.hurriyet.com.tr/_np/0795/20890795.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 584. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-january-20-2014-systematic-take-down-of-cabal-accelerates-with-vatican-bank-purge-mass-resignations-mass-firings-etc/
 585. http://www.novinite.com/articles/156911/Turkey+Prosecution+Investigates+'Parallel+State'+Allegations
 586. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/dec/28/erdogan-pressure-quit-turkey-protests
 587. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/dec/27/turkey-murky-depths
 588. http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/turkish-pm-erdogan-to-putin-take-us-to-shanghai.aspx?pageID=238&nID=58348&NewsCatID=359
 589. http://www.spiegel.de/international/europe/new-party-born-of-gezi-park-protest-faces-hurdles-to-power-in-turkey-a-933887.html
 590. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/oct/04/ankara-fails-deliver-democracy
 591. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/sep/30/turkish-pm-erdogan-reforms
 592. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/sep/30/erdogan-personality-reformer-tyrant-analysis
 593. http://www.cpj.org/2013/09/cpj-calls-on-erdogan-to-embrace-press-freedom.php
 594. http://www.jewishjournal.com/live_from_the_arab_spring/article/prime_ministers_accusations_rebuild_israeli_turkish_tension
 595. http://www.spiegel.de/international/business/erdogan-endangering-economy-with-financial-sector-witch-hunt-a-917370.html
 596. http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/verdicts-in-turkish-ergenekon-trial-reflect-deep-divisions-a-914924.html
 597. http://jewishvoiceny.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=4907:turkish-journalists-under-arrest-opposition-party-says&catid=106:international&Itemid=289
 598. http://world.time.com/2013/07/30/in-turkey-critics-of-erdogans-government-claim-familiar-pattern-of-reprisal/
 599. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/jul/29/my-sacking-attack-turkish-democracy
 600. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-23474404
 601. http://thebackbencher.co.uk/dubious-critical-letter-to-turkish-pm-draws-threat-to-sue-all-involved/
 602. http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/legal-action-will-be-started-against-the-british-daily-the-times-turkish-pm-says.aspx?pageID=238&nID=51487&NewsCatID=338
 603. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/07/26/yavuz-baydar-fired-turkey-freedom-press_n_3660955.html
 604. http://thebackbencher.co.uk/a-letter-to-the-prime-minister-of-turkey/
 605. http://armenpress.am/eng/news/727251/open-letter-to-erdoğan.html
 606. http://www.vosizneias.com/assets/uploads/news_photos/thumbnails/800_udhhxtjpk7wh8rkwlv1egfh1ye90xfpk.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 607. http://www.vosizneias.com/assets/uploads/news_photos/thumbnails/800_udhhxtjpk7wh8rkwlv1egfh1ye90xfpk.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 608. http://www.youtube.com/embed/5ltax00Lkb4?feature=player_detailpage
 609. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-july-22-2013-long-hot-summer-a-prelude-to-more-action-in-the-fall/
 610. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-Q5v6UmxXt6M/UerR9esdC7I/AAAAAAAAGJA/lZUoA2A_qBE/s1600/William+Livingstone+House+&+Woodward+Avenue+Presbyterian+Church,+Detroit.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 611. http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-qEzO1T3bHCw/TySJ21Mdi9I/AAAAAAAAAuI/BWN8j5GSuow/s1600/Hope+you+don%27t+get+indefinitely+detained+%28Obama%29.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 612. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-knafj-RlDyk/UeK7dAKhNpI/AAAAAAAAGIA/IVlDi0MGfjs/s1600/I+Spy+You.+No+Brazilian+is+safe+from+the+digital+surveillance+of+the+US+Government.+Brazilian+news+magazine.+June-July+2013.+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 613. http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-54Va8OzuLhA/UduypNxt2pI/AAAAAAAAGHA/98IC_9HfcrE/s1600/Putin+and+Merkel+-+Cheerio+EuroZone+-+Hello+Eurasian+Union+(2)+#1ab.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 614. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/06/08/neil-keenan-update-a-brief-history-of-the-global-collateral-accounts/
 615. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-Hx6r7TBkXmo/TwtTH7Y5loI/AAAAAAAAAqk/2BFhPoFKYvA/s1600/Pandora%27s+Suitcase+4.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 616. http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-revKZ6e7LG8/TyzRDQbT7QI/AAAAAAAAAwY/lKWQ5STNAL0/s1600/Spiritual+Wonder+Boy.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 617. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.co.uk/2012/01/white-spiritual-boy-off-ledger-black.html
 618. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.co.uk/2012/01/global-banking-crisis-what-global.html
 619. http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-cbtj4ndHh6I/T0XAiNhEXII/AAAAAAAAA40/zF6CP9VX60o/s1600/Queen+signature+on+Committee+of+300+document.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 620. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2011/09/monaco-colloquium-august-2011.html
 621. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/7725157.stm
 622. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-QoslUxL1QaE/UB7dqnMfIZI/AAAAAAAACq4/IGWKeVKq1lk/s1600/Kennedy+%26+Soekarno+-+Andrews+Air+Force+Base+-+April+1961.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 623. http://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/sociopolitica/esp_sociopol_muslimbrotherhood03.htm
 624. http://www.veddel.net/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2008/12/willybrandt.jpg?SSImageQuality=Full
 625. http://landdestroyer.blogspot.co.uk/2011/03/egypt-wikileaks-to-rescue.html
 626. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2014/01/21/down-the-rabbit-hole-by-robert-j-miller/
 627. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-january-20-2014-systematic-take-down-of-cabal-accelerates-with-vatican-bank-purge-mass-resignations-mass-firings-etc/
 628. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-january-14-2014-japans-abe-may-be-arrested-at-davos-switzerland-for-role-in-aum-terrorist-attacks/
 629. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2014/01/09/the-fed-fraud-the-european-controlled-creature-thats-bled-us-100-years/
 630. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-jan-6-2014-final-offensive-against-cabal-continues-resistance-fading-but-nasty-incidents-still-possible/
 631. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2014/01/04/neil-keenan-update-2014-the-nk-group-strikes-back/
 632. http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-destabilization-of-africa-a-machiavellian-intrigue-of-colossal-proportions/5363144
 633. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-dec-31-2013-for-the-zionists-2013-was-like-1944-was-to-the-nazis/
 634. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/12/please-areest-them.html
 635. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/12/about-prime-minister-shinzo-abes-visit-to-the-yasukuni-shrine.html
 636. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-dec-23-2014-multiple-sources-confirm-2014-will-be-the-year-of-revolution-in-the-west/
 637. http://shiftfrequency.com/benjamin-fulford-2011-nuclear-terror-perpetrators-in-japan-to-be-included-in-ongoing-asian-purge-of-cabal-flunkies/
 638. http://canauzzie.blogspot.ca/2013/12/our-last-stand-report-3-stories-of-our.html
 639. http://www.chinadailyasia.com/news/2013-12/13/content_15105943.html
 640. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/12/12/neil-keenan-update-back-in-action-warns-of-cabal-gold-grab-in-asia-and-of-plan-for-usa-war-with-china/
 641. http://shiftfrequency.com/37829/
 642. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-dec-2-2013-heavy-duty-last-minute-negotiations-continue-okinawa-korea-and-sunnishia-divide-remain-sticking-points/#more-37471
 643. http://beforeitsnews.com/alternative/2013/11/ben-fulford-update-formal-notice-has-been-given-to-the-sabbatean-mafia-start-saving-the-planet-or-else-2832270.html
 644. http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/turkish-pm-erdogan-to-putin-take-us-to-shanghai.aspx?pageID=238&nID=58348&NewsCatID=359
 645. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/11/22/neil-keenan-update-the-great-escape-news-on-gold-and-cleaning-house/
 646. http://rt.com/news/eu-ukraine-agreement-reaction-125/
 647. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-nov-18-2013-cabal-is-in-surrender-negotiations-told-to-hand-over-700-trillion-or-10000-for-each-human/
 648. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/11/11/ben-fulford-the-french-saudi-israeli-and-japanese-slave-governments-block-new-financial-system/
 649. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/11/08/neil-keenan-update-response-to-karen-hudes/
 650. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-nov-6-2013-multiple-sources-say-the-pentagon-is-moving-to-shut-down-cabal/
 651. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-oct-28-2013-this-halloween-will-haunt-the-cabalists-for-a-long-time/
 652. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/10/21/neil-keenan-update-thank-you-pentagon-for-coming-to-our-aid-four-top-generals-with-the-highest-clearance-in-the-united-states-stood-up-for-us-and-lost-their-jobs-and-support-for-their-family-octo/
 653. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-21oct13-like-a-junkie-selling-family-heirlooms-the-us-corporate-government-buys-time/
 654. http://www.naturalnews.com/z042560_Ron_Paul_US_empire_collapse.html
 655. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-oct-15-2013-will-humanitys-long-nightmare-finally-begin-to-end-this-week-with-the-bankruptcy-of-washington-d-c/
 656. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/oct/09/china-in-africa-obama-obsession
 657. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/benfulford-oct-7-2013-the-cabal-is-down-but-not-out-attack-on-all-fronts-until-they-surrender/
 658. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/oct/05/iran-ayatollah-ali-khamenei
 659. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1380833469
 660. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-oct-1-2013-cabal-buys-time-with-proposal-to-hand-over-money-to-humanity/
 661. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/09/23/david-wilcock-offers-offers-important-understanding-about-the-recent-post-washington-dc-navy-yard-shooting-linked-to-attempted-arrest-of-obama-for-treason/
 662. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-sep-23-2013-gold-is-just-a-yellow-metal-that-you-cannot-eat/
 663. https://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/09/22/washington-dc-navy-yard-shooting-linked-to-attempted-arrest-of-obama-for-treason/
 664. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/09/19/neil-keenan-update-nfk-sets-the-record-straight-as-karen-hudes-mis-speaks-and-ben-fulford-missteps/
 665. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1379552520
 666. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/bellringers_corner/writings/news.php?q=1379506454
 667. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/09/17/neil-keenan-update-keenan-goes-into-the-lions-den-meets-with-cabal-chieftain-reveals-his-own-financial-doomsday-weapons-against-the-cabal-keenan-sounds-the-charge-2/
 668. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-sep-17-2017-p2-freemasons-want-pope-francis-to-be-new-m1-the-controller-of-money/
 669. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1379471409
 670. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/sep/15/nsa-mind-keith-alexander-star-trek
 671. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1379070391
 672. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/sep/10/silent-military-coup-took-over-washington
 673. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/09/10/jewish-lobby-wants-greater-israel-by-wars-against-syria-iran/
 674. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-sep-9-2013-fear-and-hate-palpable-as-final-cabal-take-down-continues/
 675. http://www.activistpost.com/2013/09/10-signs-global-elite-are-losing-control.html
 676. https://therebel.org/kaminski/689346-all-the-lies-are-really-one-lie
 677. http://www.paulcraigroberts.org/2013/09/05/the-us-government-stands-revealed-to-the-world-as-a-collection-of-war-criminals-and-liars/
 678. http://rt.com/business/russia-brics-bank-g20-468/
 679. http://rt.com/news/putin-interview-ap-channel1-431/
 680. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/09/04/neil-keenan-update-correction-regarding-new-global-human-rights-court-and-the-international-chamber-of-commerce/
 681. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/09/04/neil-keenan-update-additional-asian-asset-holders-reach-out-to-keenan-group-as-momentum-builds-to-topple-banking-cabal
 682. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-sep-3-2013-connecting-the-dots-between-syria-fukushima-olympic-terror-threats-and-the-nazi-cia/
 683. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/09/01/neil-keenan-update-keenan-group-closes-in-on-the-cabal-2-videos/
 684. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-aug-27-2013-latest-attempt-to-start-world-war-3-in-syria-a-sign-of-cabal-desperation/
 685. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/08/26/neil-keenan-responds-to-a-reader-wolf-plus-three-videos/
 686. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/08/26/neil-keenan-update-slugging-it-outand-winning-two-videos-make-this-post-viral-sing-the-song-all-day-long-and-as-long-as-it-takes-hugs-jean/
 687. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-aug-20-2013-why-the-just-following-orders-mentality-allowed-the-fascists-to-take-over-the-west/
 688. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1376665146
 689. http://roarmag.org/2013/08/manning-snowden-assange-whistleblowers/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+roarmag+(ROAR+Magazine)
 690. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1376484791
 691. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-aug-12-2013-the-feds-desperate-to-keep-some-power-are-on-the-move-with-billions-of-fiat-dollars-in-bribes/
 692. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/08/12/presstv-saudis-key-sponsor-of-terror-campaign-in-iraq-backed-by-us-me-expert/
 693. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/08/09/neil-keenan-update-game-changer-global-account-titans-support-keenan-as-point-man-world-bank-exposѐ-unravels-cabal-control/
 694. http://www.shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-aug-6-2013-real-life-assassins-and-their-role/
 695. http://www.tomheneghanbriefings.com/The-Latest-NSA-Mossad-False-Flag-And-The-American-Turkish-Council-Fingered-Again__08-04-2013.html
 696. http://wikileaks.org/Statement-on-Snowden-s-Successful.html
 697. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1375221282
 698. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/07/30/neil-keenan-update-neil-keenan-meets-with-leaders-of-asian-clans-in-hong-kong/
 699. http://therealnews.com/t2/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=31&Itemid=74&jumival=10486
 700. http://www.dailypaul.com/293773/putin-controls-the-chessboard-false-flag-on-chicago
 701. http://www.paulcraigroberts.org/2013/07/23/role-reversal-how-the-us-became-the-ussr-paul-craig-roberts/
 702. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-july-22-2013-long-hot-summer-a-prelude-to-more-action-in-the-fall/
 703. http://www.zerohedge.com/print/contributed/2013-07-22/china-maneuvers-take-away-us’-dominant-reserve-currency-status
 704. http://www.tomheneghanbriefings.com/United-States-Remains-on-the-Brink__07-21-2013.html
 705. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/07/this-was-e-mailed-to-me-author-unknown.html
 706. http://theinternetpost.net/tag/federal-reserve-system/
 707. http://www.globalresearch.ca/saudis-unprecedented-break-with-washington-over-egypt/5343092
 708. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-july-17-2013-chaos-and-panic-spreading-amongst-cabalists-more-heads-to-roll-soon/
 709. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/07/10/neil-keenan-update-assassination-attempt-on-keenans-team-in-jakarta-and-smear-by-phony-whistleblower-david-crayford-is-exposed-by-michael-henry-dunn/
 710. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1373459245
 711. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-july-8-2013-as-us-pivots-to-asia-russia-charges-into-europe-and-the-middle-east/
 712. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/07/alert-to-police-and-intelligence-authorities.html
 713. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/07/re-questions-from-a-reader.html
 714. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/07/subject-benjamin-fulford-report-7-2-13-ben-it-is-right-in-morganthaus-diary-that-he-had-no-intention-of-creating-a-liabili.html
 715. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/07/03/the-echoes-of-gettysburg-by-michael-henry-dunn-july-3-2013/
 716. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-july-1-2013-trillions-of-dollars-worth-of-bonds-now-in-the-possession-of-the-white-dragon-society/
 717. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/06/30/repost-again-for-newcomers-part-ii-the-off-ledger-occult-economy-operation-golden-lily-the-black-eagle-trust-911-the-dragon-family-the-1-trillion-dollar-keenan-federal-lawsuit-and-the-globa/
 718. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-jun-24-2013-major-offensive-against-cabal-control-continues-on-multiple-fronts/
 719. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/06/22/neil-keenan-nelu-update-an-interview-conducted-by-kimberley-jaeger/
 720. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1371602395
 721. http://shiftfrequency.com/the-hunt-is-on-for-m1-the-secret-guy-printing-fraudulent-euros-and-dollars-for-the-sabbatean-mafia/
 722. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1371575552
 723. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-june-10-2013-open-battle-raging-between-sabbatean-cabal-and-military-industrial-complex/
 724. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/06/08/neil-keenan-update-a-brief-history-of-the-global-collateral-accounts/
 725. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1370661192
 726. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/06/04/neil-keenan-speaks-about-chiasso/
 727. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-june-8-2013-financial-war-escalates-with-riots-in-turkey-a-blockade-of-european-central-bank-assassinations-and-arrests-amid-clouds-of-disinformation/
 728. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/05/31/global-accounts-update-the-bridge-a-personal-statement-from-neil-keenan-video/
 729. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-may-28-2013-the-tide-has-definitely-turned-against-the-cabal-but-some-big-battles-remain-ahead/
 730. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1369702153
 731. http://www.presstv.com/detail/2013/05/25/305340/terror-tornado-shias-under-attack-in-iraq/
 732. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/government/new_world_order/news.php?q=1369236777
 733. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-may-20-2013-signs-of-end-game-in-washington-d-c-proliferate-end-of-cold-war-in-north-east-asia-also-coming/
 734. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/05/20/neil-keenan-lays-one-on-indonesian-prosecutor-hell-to-pay-and-here-it-comes/
 735. http://www.presstv.ir/detail/2013/05/14/303376/us-dictatorship-and-its-free-fall/
 736. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/05/13/neil-keenan-update-working-for-the-freedom-of-nelu-martha-wibawa-key-figure-for-the-liberation-of-the-global-accounts/
 737. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-may-13-2013-new-moves-afoot-to-break-financial-deadlock/
 738. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-may-6-2013-netanyahu-summoned-to-china-cabal-purge-begins-in-uk/
 739. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1367690124
 740. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/05/01/neil-keenan-update-mopping-up-and-moving-on/
 741. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-april-30-2013-desperate-sabbatean-mafia-tries-to-bribe-putin-with-offers-of-world-power-gnostic-illuminati/
 742. http://politicalvelcraft.org/2013/04/30/rolling-stone-conspiracy-theorists-of-the-world-believers-in-the-hidden-hands-of-the-rothschilds-ww-skeptics-owe-you-an-apology/
 743. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-april-22-2013-three-more-major-terrorist-incidents-threatened-after-boston-and-texas/
 744. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/04/19/neil-keenan-update-oppt-breaks-peace-declares-military-arm-keenan-survives-poisoning-attempt-notifies-authorities-of-oppt-incitement-of-indonesian-rebellion/
 745. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1366244490
 746. http://www.paulcraigroberts.org/2013/04/16/update-to-the-update-the-attack-on-gold-paul-craig-roberts/
 747. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-april-15-2013-north-korean-nukes-syrian-chemical-weapons-all-linked-to-desperate-zionists/
 748. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/04/12/neil-keenan-update-exposing-global-account-frauds-oppt-is-the-cabal-in-disguise/
 749. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/04/10/neil-keenan-comments-for-the-first-time-rip-dr-michael-van-de-meer-the-real-james-bond-by-ben-fulford/
 750. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-april-6-2013-sabbatean-mafia-plans-to-stage-nuclear-terror-blame-north-korea/
 751. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/04/07/neil-keenan-update-asia-beware-youre-next-josef-ackermann-on-his-way/
 752. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/04/06/neil-keenan-update-global-financial-alert-race-against-time-to-prevent-banksters-plan-to-trigger-meltdown-fear-of-keenan-driving-cabal-panic/
 753. http://www.veteranstoday.com/2013/04/03/what-is-going-on-with-north-korea-is-not-what-it-seems/
 754. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-april-1-2013-plasma-ball-spotted-over-mt-fuji-haarp-attack-suspected/
 755. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/03/31/neil-keenan-update-arrest-the-bankers-counterfeit-notes-issued-by-the-ecbthe-big-euro-bailouts-are-backed-by-less-than-air-theyre-backed-by-fraud/
 756. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1364646692
 757. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/print/2013-03-25/brics-nations-plan-new-bank-to-bypass-world-bank-imf.html
 758. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-march-25-2013-us-president-obama-now-directly-implicated-in-311-nuclear-and-tsunami-terrorist-attack-against-japan/
 759. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-march-19-2013-new-pope-new-israeli-government-new-bank-of-japan-governor/
 760. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/03/18/neil-keenan-team-celebrate-as-crucial-evidence-comes-to-light-st-patricks-day-update-from-jakarta-by-michael-henry-dunn/
 761. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/03/11/ben-fulford-asian-or-roman-pope-next-also-north-korea-seeks-political-union-with-south/
 762. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-march-5-2013-murder-attempt-against-queen-elizabeth-ii-foiled-manhunt-on-for-former-black-pope-peter-hans-kolvenbach/
 763. http://www.examiner.com/article/anonymous-strikes-wall-street-ceos-leaks-personal-information
 764. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1362018974
 765. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/02/re-your-latest.html
 766. http://lucas2012infos.wordpress.com/2013/02/25/benjamin-fulford-full-update-is-march-going-to-be-the-month-of-the-final-breakthrough-25-february-2013/
 767. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/02/18/ben-fulford-after-pope-falls-british-monarchy-under-severe-attack-global-turbulence-increases-february-19-2013/
 768. http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-02-16/where-secret-jp-morgan-london-gold-vault-located
 769. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/02/13/another-story-from-keven-annett-the-rat-scurries-from-the-vat-the-latest-coup-in-rome/
 770. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-12-feb-2013-tanks-sent-towards-beijing-in-internal-chinese-rift-pope-quits-after-bush-confessions/
 771. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/02/fw-petraeus-and-benghazi.html
 772. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2013/02/re-illuminati-use-china-to-loot-the-west.html
 773. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/02/04/ben-fulford-queen-beatrix-quits-the-rockefellers-flee-the-bushes-are-rats-in-a-trap-queen-elizabeth-the-pope-and-the-rothschilds-are-still-standing-february-5-2013/
 774. http://divinecosmos.com/start-here/davids-blog/1107-new-russian-doc
 775. http://www.presstv.ir/detail/2013/01/30/286284/israels-world-war-plan-enters-high-gear/
 776. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-jan-28-2013-the-sabbatean-mafia-and-vatican-p2-lodge-are-on-what-will-be-their-final-offensive/
 777. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-january-21-2013-are-western-powers-trying-to-start-war-in-asia-to-distract-attention-from-their-sahara-land-grab/
 778. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1358733912
 779. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1358296190
 780. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/01/14/ben-fulford-signs-of-cabal-defeat-are-proliferating-january-14-2013/
 781. http://jhaines6.wordpress.com/2013/01/07/ben-fulford-the-holiday-lull-is-over-the-fascists-days-are-numbered-january-8-2013/
 782. http://www.naturalnews.com/038598_vaccines_medical_hoax_government_documents.html
 783. http://www.fourwinds10.net/siterun_data/nesara/news/news.php?q=1357611428
 784. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-20903443
 785. http://shiftfrequency.com/ben-fulford-jan-2-2013-do-not-give-the-cabal-time-to-re-group-we-must-press-home-to-victory/
 786. http://www.paoweb.com/sn010113.htm
 787. http://benjaminfulford.typepad.com/benjaminfulford/2012/12/nwo-defeated-bs.html
 788. http://news.goldseek.com/GoldenJackass/1356642000.php
 789. http://americannationalmilitia.com/more-documentation-keenan/
 790. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012/09/index-of-blog-contents.html
 791. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/search/label/altnews10#1ab
 792. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/search/label/Esoteric spirituality
 793. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/search/label/Independent Alternative News
 794. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/search/label/Suppressed global intelligence
 795. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/search/label/The Higher Evolution
 796. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/search/label/The opening of Pandora's suitcase
 797. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012/01/altnews101ab.html
 798. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012/01/altnews101ab.html#comments
 799. http://www.blogger.com/profile/14917474523744351041
 800. http://www.blogger.com/profile/14917474523744351041
 801. http://www.blogger.com/profile/14917474523744351041
 802. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012/01/altnews101ab.html
 803. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/the-future-historians-list.html
 804. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007/07/nesara-announcement-expected-in-run-up.html
 805. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007/12/2008-agenda-for-disclosure.html
 806. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012/09/index-of-blog-contents.html
 807. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014/04/malaysia-airlines-mh370-fin-de-siecle.html
 808. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007/08/statins-honey-in-poison-flower.html
 809. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012/11/httpalcuinbramerton.html
 810. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007/08/extraterrestrial-television-hijack.html
 811. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2004/12/extraterrestrial-symbols-of-spiritual.html
 812. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2004_10_01_archive.html
 813. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2004_11_01_archive.html
 814. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2004_12_01_archive.html
 815. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_01_01_archive.html
 816. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_02_01_archive.html
 817. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_03_01_archive.html
 818. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_04_01_archive.html
 819. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_05_01_archive.html
 820. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_06_01_archive.html
 821. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_07_01_archive.html
 822. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_08_01_archive.html
 823. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_09_01_archive.html
 824. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_10_01_archive.html
 825. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_11_01_archive.html
 826. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2005_12_01_archive.html
 827. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_01_01_archive.html
 828. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_03_01_archive.html
 829. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_04_01_archive.html
 830. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_05_01_archive.html
 831. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_06_01_archive.html
 832. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_07_01_archive.html
 833. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_08_01_archive.html
 834. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_09_01_archive.html
 835. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_10_01_archive.html
 836. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_11_01_archive.html
 837. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2006_12_01_archive.html
 838. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_01_01_archive.html
 839. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_02_01_archive.html
 840. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_03_01_archive.html
 841. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_04_01_archive.html
 842. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_06_01_archive.html
 843. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_07_01_archive.html
 844. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_08_01_archive.html
 845. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_09_01_archive.html
 846. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_10_01_archive.html
 847. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_11_01_archive.html
 848. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2007_12_01_archive.html
 849. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2008_01_01_archive.html
 850. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2008_03_01_archive.html
 851. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2008_06_01_archive.html
 852. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2009_04_01_archive.html
 853. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2009_09_01_archive.html
 854. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2010_02_01_archive.html
 855. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2010_04_01_archive.html
 856. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2010_10_01_archive.html
 857. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2010_11_01_archive.html
 858. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2011_01_01_archive.html
 859. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2011_03_01_archive.html
 860. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2011_07_01_archive.html
 861. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2011_08_01_archive.html
 862. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_01_01_archive.html
 863. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_02_01_archive.html
 864. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_04_01_archive.html
 865. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_06_01_archive.html
 866. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_07_01_archive.html
 867. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_08_01_archive.html
 868. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_09_01_archive.html
 869. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_10_01_archive.html
 870. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_11_01_archive.html
 871. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2012_12_01_archive.html
 872. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013_01_01_archive.html
 873. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013_02_01_archive.html
 874. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013_03_01_archive.html
 875. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013_07_01_archive.html
 876. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013_09_01_archive.html
 877. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013_10_01_archive.html
 878. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013_11_01_archive.html
 879. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2013_12_01_archive.html
 880. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014_02_01_archive.html
 881. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014_03_01_archive.html
 882. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014_04_01_archive.html
 883. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014_05_01_archive.html
 884. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014_08_01_archive.html
 885. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014_09_01_archive.html
 886. http://alcuinbramerton.blogspot.com/2014_10_01_archive.html
 887. http://www.blogger.com/
 888. http://www.statcounter.com/

   Hidden links:
 890. http://www.blogger.com/email-post.g?blogID=8848525&postID=609570456329000100
 891. http://www.blogger.com/post-edit.g?blogID=8848525&postID=609570456329000100&from=pencil
