   #[1]Marlena Spieler RSS Feed [2]Marlena Spieler

     * [3]Home
     * [4]Register

[5]Marlena Spieler

   "Food writer and broadcaster Marlena Spieler...."
     * Search...___________
       [searchsubmit.png]-Submit

   [6]Entries (RSS)
   [7]Comments (RSS)
   26 Aug 14

   Written by [8]Marlena, [9]Comments (0)

[10]In Solidarity with Suvir’s Potato Salad

   Since I’ve written a book about potatoes–Yummy Potatoes,
   [11]http://www.amazon.co.uk/Yummy-Potatoes-Downright-Delicious-Recipes-
   ebook/dp/B00ANC32Y6– it should come as no surprise that whatever in
   life happens to challenge me, the answer often involves potatoes. In
   fact, regardless of the question, the answer is usually potato salad.

   The other day I was on hanging on facebook,  while one of my fave
   peeps–Indian-American Chef, cookbook author, San Francisco
   restauranteur  and Top Chef Television judge, Suvir Suran–was going on
   and on about the potato salad he was making. “friends” were oohing and
   aaaahing. I “watched”, from the other side of the world, as its
   preparation unfolded. The potatoes, the eggs, the pickles……..yes, it
   involved pickles. This was my roadblock. I’ve noticed when Suvir has
   made this potato salad before–I might not remember birthdays and the
   time of flights, but I always remember when Suvir makes potato salad.

   Because it sounds so good, as he whips it lovingly together.

   Then, when its ready, he posts pictures of it, and of course, it looks
   so good. And then,  I know its only a matter of time before I’m boiling
   spuds and chopped vegetables.

   I’ll be honest: his potato salad always looks so good that I start
   getting nervous when he makes it, like I’ll never taste his potato
   salad, nor anything so delicious ever! And its not a fear completely
   unfounded: living abroad I don’t have access to iconic American sweet
   pickles, and if i do bring them back we end up eating them up long
   before I make potato salad.

   But of course, I have a million potato salads up my sleeve: potato
   salads I’ve picked up all over the world. In solidarity with Suvir: I
   marched myself into the kitchen and made my potato salad du jour: with
   peas and fresh dill (picture upper left)

   This is: Not Suvir’s Potato Salad, but mine: with dill, peas, green
   onions, and….oh yes, roasted pickled peppers

   Serves 4

   750g/ 1 1/2 lbs small succulent potatoes, such as fingerlings or other
   salad potato

   2 green onions, thinly sliced

   About 1/2 cup volume frozen (or fresh young blanched) peas

   2-3  teaspoons mild Dijon mustard (such as Maille), or to taste

   2-3 heaped tablespoons coarsely chopped or cut up roasted
   red/pickled/jarred red peppers

   2-3 heaped tablespoons coarsely chopped jiardiniera pickled vegetables,
   finely chopped, plus a little of its marinade

   2-3 heaped tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh dill

   About 3 heaped tablespoons mayonnaise or as desired

   Salt and freshly ground black pepper

   Cook the potatoes–unpeeled as their skins are probably paper-thin–in
   cold water to cover, boiling for about 10 minutes. Pour off the water
   except for a spoonful or two, sprinkle with sea salt, cover and set on
   a very very low flame. very low. Leave for another 5 or 10 minutes. It
   will finish steaming the potatoes and drying out their flesh a bit.
   Could COULD go so far as to let them scorch–a carefully controlled
   scorch so that it doesn’t burn–which actually gives a beautiful texture
   and flavour to the spud-letts.

   Leave the potatoes to cool until you can handle them. Cut them into
   large dice or small chunks.

   Toss with: green onions, peas, mustard, peppers, jiardiniera and a
   teaspoon or two of its marinade, the chopped dill. Toss together gently
   to mix the ingredients evenly but not mash the potatoes.

   Fold in the mayonaise, salt and pepper to taste. Chill until ready to
   eat.

   And then because it was so delicious and gobbled up so greedily and
   quickly, two days later I’m jonseing for another potato salad.  made a
   different one this morning.

   This Also  is Not Suvir’s Potato Salad: this one has Celery, Celery
   Leaf, and Crunchy Pickled Carrots

   This one is very similar–in that it has jiardiniera and brine–but no
   peas in this one–andthe pickled vegetables in this case are carrots,
   finely chopped: such a perky punch they pack!

   Serves 4

   750g/ 1 1/2 lbs tiny salad potatoes such as fingerlings, scrubbed

   2 green onions, thinly sliced

   2 tablespoons or as desired, chopped fresh dill

   2-3 teaspoons mild Dijon type mustard

   A few shakes of vinegar or brine from jiardiniera vegetable pickles

   About 10 slices pickled carrots from jiardiniera pickled vegetable mix

   1 stalk celery, including the leaves, chopped

   2-3 heaped tablespoons mayonnaise

   Cook the potatoes: place them in cold water to cover, bring to the
   boil, then reduce heat and simmer until just tender. Drain all except
   for a spoonful of water, sprinkle with salt, cover, and leave on very
   low heat for about 5-10 minutes. You don’t NEED to do this, but I think
   it results in a less watery, more flavourful and firm, potato

   Leave to cool until you are able to handle them.

   Dice the cooled potatoes and mix with the green onions, dill, mustard,
   brine from pickled carrots, then add the finely chopped pickled carrots
   (and celery too if it comes in the mixture).

   Fold in the mayonnaise, salt and pepper to taste, and eat now or chill
   until ready to serve.

   I think i’m totally going to get Suvir’s Potato Salad recipe and print
   it right here! Watch this space…..

   OMG: This IS Suvir’s Potato Salad

   Serves 8 to 10

   Says Suvir: “Ed Schoenfeld, owner of the celebrated Red Farm restaurant
   in NYC, makes a version of this potato salad for many of his dinner
   parties. Before I met Ed, I was never a fan of mayonnaise-based potato
   salad. Once I tasted his version, my opinion changed forever. What’s
   unusual about this potato salad is that there is sugar in it. The
   sweetness combines with the sweet-sour taste of the gherkins, the tang
   of the lime, the spiciness of the cayenne and the herby freshness of
   the basil to make a potato salad that hits the ground running. With
   lots of mayonnaise and olive oil, I admit that it isn’t the healthiest
   salad in this chapter. But it’s not the kind of salad that you make
   every day—it’s worth the splurge.

   4 large eggs

   3/4 cup cup mayonnaise

   2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil

   2 tablespoons champagne or white wine vinegar

   Juice of 1 lime

   1 1/2 tablespoons Dijon mustard

   3 tablespoons sugar

   1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon kosher salt

   1/2 teaspoon cracked peppercorns

   1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper

   2 bunches of scallions, white and light green part only, thinly sliced

   1/4 cup chopped sweet gherkins

   1 generous cup basil or dill, finely chopped

   1/4 cup parsley, finely chopped

   3 1/2 pounds small to medium red potatoes, peeled, halved and each half
   quartered

   Place the eggs in a medium saucepan and cover with water. Bring to a
   boil, cover and turn off the heat. Let the eggs stand 10 minutes in hot
   water and then drain and cool.

   Once cool, peel and separate the whites from yolks. Quarter the whites,
   and set aside; finely mash the yolks and set aside.

   Whisk the mayonnaise, egg yolks, olive oil, vinegar, lime juice,
   mustard, sugar, salt, pepper and cayenne pepper together in a large
   bowl. Stir in the scallion, gherkins, basil and parsley, cover with
   plastic wrap and refrigerate.

   Place the potatoes in a large pot and cover with 1 inch of water. Bring
   the potatoes to a boil, add 1 tablespoon kosher salt, reduce heat to a
   medium simmer and cook until the potatoes are just tender about 15 to
   20 minutes.

   Drain and, while still warm, add to the dressing and toss to combine.
   Cover the bowl flush with plastic wrap and refrigerate until thoroughly
   chilled, at least 2 hours and up to 1 day in advance. Taste for
   seasoning and then gently fold in the egg whites and serve.

   IFRAME:
   [12]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=1064&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&fon
   t=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [13]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [14]Uri
   21 Aug 14

   Written by [15]Marlena, [16]Comments (0)

[17]More Zucchini! a lovely fluff and a plate of pasta.

   I know, I know, a few posts back, earlier in zucchini season, I posted
   a recipe for a sort of fritatta: shredded zucchini, eggs, cheese, baked
   in a pan, a sort of crustless pie. And it is delicious! wonderful!
   formidable! (pronounced with a french accent, just because doesn’t it
   sound lovely that way–and also because I got an A in my GCSE French
   exams).

   So you would think: okay, one shredded zucchini, eggs and cheese dish
   should be enough for anyone’s repertoire, but no, apparently
   not……..last night I made this: baked ricotta with both shredded AND
   sliced zucchini. And while it is a little similar to the fritatta,
   based on eggs, cheese and zucchini, it is different enough for me to
   share this with you, too: the fritatta-like pie is a whole different
   thing to eat: flat, firm, with crisp edges and borders and crispy bits
   all over.  And this? its deep and airy, no crispness at all, a wobble-y
   mixture of both shredded and sliced zucchini, with the shredded cheese
   stirred into ricotta.  It emerges from the oven souffle-like, but sinks
   a bit and gets firmer as it does. Its good fresh and warm, but like the
   first recipe, the zucchini  fritatta, even better the next day at cool
   room temperature.

   Delicious Fluff of Zucchini and Ricotta

   Serves 4

   4-6 zucchini: depending on their size

   125g/4 oz whole milk ricotta, broken up with a fork

   3 eggs

   100g/3 1/2 oz shredded sharp white Cheddar, asiago, pecorino Romano, or
   a similar cheese

   3-4 tablespoons coarsely chopped fresh basil

   3-4 tablespoons self-rising flour

   Pinch freshly ground black pepper

   To bake: a deep baking dish, perferably ceramic, about 1 quart/1 litre/
   3-4 cups in volume, prepared by coating the inside with a little evoo,
   swirling it around, then sprinkling it with freshly grated
   Parmesan/pecorino/Grana Padano……

   Take about 2/3 of the zucchini and grate over the large holes of a
   grater. Place in a strainer and toss with a few large pinches of kosher
   or large sea salt; flakes are excellent. Leave for about 15 minutes,
   lots of liquid will come out, squeeze several times to encourage it!

   Slice the remaining zucchini very thinly, toss with a few pinches of
   salt and leave it also, to draw out the liquid and drain.

   Beat the ricotta together with the eggs and stir in the shredded
   cheese, basil, flour and the drained shredded squeezed zucchini, black
   pepper to taste.

   Pour into the prepared ceramic baking dish, cover with a tight fitting
   lid or with foil, and bake in a hmmmm…what temperature did i use? I’d
   say about 325. For about an hour. Having an oven that is temperamental
   and probably bears no relationship to yours means that you should test
   it this way: notice: is it puffed up? when you gently touch the top, is
   it firmish? soft but firmish? if so, its ready. Turn off oven, and keep
   lid on until you’re ready to eat.

   Delicious hot or cold.

   Pasta Mista con Zucchini Cacio Pepe!

   Serves 2

   Cacio pepe is: cheese and black pepper, one of the classic comfort
   dishes in Italy. Its sauce is creamy, but no cream is involved, the
   silkiness of the sauce is the result of cooking water–that magic
   ingredient–being tossed with the hot pasta and cheese.

   Pasta mista is a mixture of different types of pasta: here I’ve used
   spaghetti and tiny macaroni. To be honest I had planned on spaghetti,
   but found only a small handful in my cupboard, and a small handful of
   macaroni as well. Like its origins in Italy’s cucina povera, or, the
   cuisine of the impoverished, which as we all know, can be the most
   imaginative of all, necessity being the mother and all that….anyhow, I
   grabbed both types of pasta. Interestingly: while pasta mista began
   life as a way of using up the small amounts of leftover dried pasta on
   one’s shelf, it is now sold packaged in chic shops (I just saw a lovely
   bag in Tuscany), the pasta sizes parcelled up together according to how
   long they take to cook.

   Anyhow, while I was gathering my pasta, grating the cheese and pounding
   the peppercorns in the mortar and pestle, I gazed out the kitchen
   window onto the garden and my lone, magnificent, zucchini plant, with a
   few lovely green zucchini: small, tender and delicious, ready to be
   picked. The pasta was in the boiling water when I ran through the grass
   and the mud to gather them……

   About 250 g/ 8 oz pasta: half spaghetti, have small macaroni

   2-3 small zucchini from the garden, or 1-2 medium sized zucchini from
   the shops/market, very thinly sliced (though I cut some in batons as
   well as the slices, to see how that shape would work, note the picture)

   Salt for pasta water

   About 100 g/ 3 oz freshly grated dryish cheese such as pecorino,
   parmesan, asiago, grana padano,

   Freshly crushed in a mortar and pestle, black peppercorns as desired

   About 3 tablespoons evoo

   Bring a large pot of water to the boil, salted with about a tablespoon
   of salt, then add the pasta; stir it through, and when it comes to the
   boil again, and starts to soften, ie about halfway to al dente, add the
   sliced zucchini. Cook together until the spaghetti is this side of al
   dente.

   Drain, reserving about a cup of the cooking water.

   In the hot pan, over a low heat, toss the pasta and zucchini with the
   cheese, evoo, and reserved cooking water, black pepper to taste. It
   will only be a minute or so, then onto hot plates and get your fork
   ready!

   IFRAME:
   [18]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=1033&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&fon
   t=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [19]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [20]Uri
   12 Aug 14

   Written by [21]Marlena, [22]Comments (0)

[23]Back to Beijing,The Gourmand Cookbook Fair and a Demonstration of Burmese
Cuisine

   The Gourmand Beijing Bookfair took place late May 2014, in the Daxing
   Hotel Business Centre. There were books and books and books, and
   presentations by cookbook authors–including yours truly (no foto).

   Here is a little tour of some of the award-winning books on display:

   Being in China, there were so many Chinese cookbooks, and, not speaking
   or reading the language, its hard for me to review or choose from them.
   I did love this book about water buffalo, almost a lovesong to this
   majestic animal.

   a rainbow-ful of dim sum!

   i believe this book about the buffalo is from Tibet

   And I adored this little book, Dim Sum, so charming: for someone who
   likes steamed/baked fluffy Chinese buns (me!) this book is particularly
   delightful because of its twist on traditional: starting with the array
   of pastel-coloured bao on the cover.

   Ofer Vardi’s  Lunchbox Press was showcasing a collection of  books at
   once contemporary and vibrant, with their pulse on food life in
   Israel. This childrens cookbook: “Ani Rotzeh L’faschell”, adapted from
   a French publication, means: I Want to Cook! its adorable.

   Paris Patisserie Chez Sharon

   And, like all of Lunchbox Press’ publications, so visually appealing
   you want to jump right into the pages and be a part of them: cook!
   cook! cook! Lunchbox Press’ book on the sweets of paris,  Paris
   Patisserie Chez Sharon, is hard to resist: Sharon Heinrich’s love
   letter to the pastries of Paris.

   Lunchbox Press’ book on Bagdadi/Iraqi food is gorgeous, the smell of
          spices emanates from its pages, but like all of their books at
          the moment, it is published only in Hebrew. I look forward to
          the day when Ofer does English editions, as my reading speed for
          Hebrew is S…..L…..O…..W. so slow.  But here, a book of Israeli
          food written in English, published by the author, Orly Ziv: Orly
          Cook in Israel, full of the sort of cozy, homey,
          mediterranean-based recipes that all Israeli households whip up
          as second nature, but that to foreigners feels exotic; you want
          eggplant/aubergine? Orly has it! you want shakshouka? go no
          further!

   Was pleased to see a new book by one of my fave New Zealanders: Julie
   Biuso.

   And then there were several special Japanese books at the cookbook
   fair: The first, Japanese Farmhouse Foods, by Nancy Singleton Hashisu,
   a West Coast (USA) gal who moved to Japan, raised a family and, along
   with her husband and kids, runs a farm, shares her food culture with
   the world.  This book has won many (deserved) awards: Nancy, a
   foreigner, devoted to preserving the local traditions of her Japanese
   countryside community. She is the only person I know who brews her own
   soy sauce, thats how seriously she takes her adopted artisanal culture
   of well-crafted foods.

          Japanese Farm Foods (this copy in French) Japon, la cuisine a la
          ferme)

   Wagashi, making your own traditional Japanese sweets at home

   The world of Japanese sweets, wagashi, are hard to understand for a
   non-Japanese: they are seasonal, gelled, filled with bean paste and
   ground nuts and flavoured with odd fruits and tastes we westerners with
   our cakes, cookies, cupcake mentality, might not be able to relate to.
   Usually you find wagashi in post little shop–for posh, read:
   “expensive”, looking sooooo beautiful, each sweet laid on a leaf, on a
   plate, arranged like precious jewels. Also, its very specialized, so if
   you don’t live near a large Japanese community, its unlikely you would
   have access to these elegant treats. Thats why I was enchanted to see
   this book: Wagashi, how to make them in your own kitchen!

   The fragrant, lyrical cuisine that is both  French AND Moroccan: La
   Cuisine du Pasha, published in French. So evocative.

   I have great affection for single subject cookbooks, having written a
   number of them myself: there is something so exciting about taking a
   food and exploring its whole world of creativity relating to that food!
   i was kind of thrilled with i saw: Mohn, meaning poppyseed: see the
   poppyseed filling of the shtrudel on its cover?

   Asparagus!

   And Spargel, sigh: asparagus. Oh God I COULD WRITE a book about
   asparagus. This one was in German, so I couldn’t read through it
   terribly accurately–only to enjoy the pictures and ideas; Germany
   celebrates asparagus in many ways with many traditions and festivals
   which are on my wish list. Also a whole book dedicated to its title:
   Rendang: the spicy, stewy, very savoury meat dish of Malaysia (and, I
   believe, Indonesia).

   Mohana Gill’s Cooking Demonstration

   One of the exciting things happening this year for lovers of Asian
   foods is the opening up of Burma, or, its contemporary name: Myanmar.
   Burmese native, Mohana Gill, won a Gourmand award for her: Myanmar:
   Cuisine, Culture, and Customs.

   Mohana brought slides of her recent trip to her homeland, as well as
   snacks, and ingredients to sample, and a fascinating mud-like skin
   cream, mixed with a little water, on a stone. “Meant to protect against
   the sun, as well as the effects of aging”. It felt cool on my skin, and
   when I washed it off, my skin felt soft.

   at the cooking demo:Mridula on the left, Mohana on the right, and
   Dorinda Hafner in the middle

   Together with Indian cookbook author Mridula Baljekar, Mohana prepared
   a traditional salad of fermented tea leaves, awash with all of the
   hallmark flavours of Burma/Myanmar: tons of garlic, chillies, crunchy
   toasted nuts and seeds.  We had so much fun: the big fermented tea leaf
   salad was pounded with a big mortar and pestle, was utterly garlicky
   and smacked with chile-spice, and really: we ate ourselves silly!
   Happily, each bite was lighter than the next, it seemed like with each
   mouthful we grew only excited, stimulated from the chillies, not for a
   moment over-full. Which is good because, you know: Its China: and
   before you know it: another amazing meal.

   Love the garlic and chillies!

   IFRAME:
   [24]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=979&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font
   =arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [25]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [26]Uri
   9 Aug 14

   Written by [27]Marlena, [28]Comments (0)

[29]My Enchanted Blackberry Forest

   I live in the middle of a blackberry forest in the south of England
   countryside.

   Of course throughout the year my blackberry forest  is other things: a
   source for nettles, a haven for mushrooms of all kinds, two trees that
   give wild cherries, a little clearing in the greens which magically
   sprouts ramps around May, and the wild garlic carpet  that covers the
   entire forest shortly afterward, lush green shoots with small white
   flowers, emanating a garlicky aroma that makes parts of the  dense,
   leafy, forest smell like a pizzeria.

   But it is the blackberries that give the forest its name. To be honest,
   I’m the one who named it so, and to be honest, I’m the only one who
   calls it that, but really: it IS a blackberry forest, endless acres
   climbing up the hill, down along the creek bed, creating hedges on
   either sides of the pathways, hugging fields as it grows and grows and
   grows as the summer days warm…….The brambles start growing, getting
   leafy, and madly sending out tendrils,   about June. Next, I see
   pinkish-white flowers adorn the long meandering new branches. Suddenly
   I see bunches of tiny green berries, a few at first and then whole
   banks of them, which as the days grow warming, begin to turn red…..and
   by the time we’re past the solstice, their small, scrawny berries are
   transforming into big, fat, berries, their druplets filling with juices
   and the red colour is turning purple-black. They are at their best when
   the berries get HUGE, and very plump, and soft, and gleam
   red-blue-black; by the time they grow dull in colour they are getting
   past their prime and on the verge of rotting.

   I discovered the blackberries well into my first year that I lived
   here.  It  was not something I chose, living here, and a handful of
   months after I arrived, I was still bitter about it. How did my life go
   so wrong? Fourteen years later (life happens even when you plan to be
   out of a place within the month), I am even more upset with myself that
   I let it all unfold. And there was nothing, I mean, nothing, I liked
   about living here during that first year.

   on the corner of a cul de sac, Prince of Wales Close

   Until one day when I was out walking. Our house sits in on the corner
   of a cul de sac (aka “close” in uk-speak), in a boring suburban area of
   a very unremarkable part of the south of England. I was walking up to
   the shops in the village when I noticed a little foresty opening tucked
   between two look-the-same tract houses.

   i found a paved path between the houses...and followed it.....

   just an ordinary corner of suburbia uk-style

   At first it looked like a walkway between the two houses, then I
   thought it might be a shortcut up to the village,  but instead,
   Narnia-like, the houses gave way to a dirt path with forest on each
   side: trees, bushes, fronds and dense foliage.

   i was suddenly on a foresty path....

   I was suddenly in the middle of a forest, miles from any place or any
   one. Then I noticed the berries. I snatched one, I sampled a second;
   they were delicious.

   In fact, I know i COULD make a pie or jam, but i love them fresh: such
   luxury! instead of buying a little container and doling them out
   parsimoniously, we could have as many blackberries as we liked! a huge
   bowlful for breakfast, and another for lunch and dinner, IF I managed
   to go out picking, and IF the forest had enough to give……these sweet
   sweet fruits, which each day replenished themselves: a miracle of the
   forest! Abundant, free, complex in flavour and good for you too!

   Each day I carried my basket and followed further, in different
   directions, discovering paths and more paths. One led to fields,
   another to an impenetrable forest, another to a hidden hillside with a
   creek, home to little families of foxes, winding pathways through the
   forest dotted occasionally with tiny cottages.

   Since then, whenever I am home for any extended period of time, I shut
   my eyes to the ugly of banality of my area and head

   Jake, Oscar, and Lambchop, their leads/leashes all entangled like a
   maypole

   for the forest where I can walk and walk and walk, my three Jack
   Russells–Jake, Oscar and Lambchop–at my side.

   Jake, Oscar and "Chopsy" (short for Lambchop)

   And when its the right time of year, I pick the berries.

   That first day picking berries was a consolation for being somewhere I
   don’t want to be. Looking around and seeing that the hostile territory
   in fact has a hidden cache of delicious berries, free for the picking,
   comforted me. I couldn’t understand why anyone who lived here wouldn’t
   be in the forest with me, every day, filling their baskets too? When I
   saw/see blackberries for sale in the shops, I don’t understand WHO
   WOULD BUY, especially not when the shops are surrounded by woods rich
   with berries, berries far more interesting than the ones they are
   purchasing in the pristine little plastic punnets.

   Surprisingly, not many people pick blackberries here, considering that
   it really is the most amazing blackberry forest I”ve ever seen. People
   cite the thorny brushes and brambles, able to shred your wrist and
   ankles in one forage. Not to mention stinging  insects that sometimes
   are hidden by a leaf; I can’t tell you how many times I”ve reached out
   to grab one particularly enticing berry only to stop at the last minute
   realizing that the beady eyes of a wasp were on me, and it was inches
   from my fingers.

   One of the saddest things is when a bramble is deliberately cut back
   severely, or cut down altogether. It could happen that I watch that
   area of the forest, and watch it and watch it, and then one day as I’ve
   carefully paid attention to each step along the way to berry-ripeness,
   I go check on the ripeness and suddenly the big branches laden with
   berries have been hacked away.  The bare brush is not only an eyesore,
   but a personal loss: I had looked so forward to those berries. But when
   I’ve protested, little  old ladies say: but the brambles trip us, they
   cut our fingers, we hate them! They are a nuisance! When we see them,
   we call the city council to come cut them down for safety’s sake!

   But there is no stopping the forest. Last year swaths and swaths and
   swaths of blackberry patches were torn down, but this spring they
   sprouted up in different locations. One even snuck into our walled
   garden!

   So I keep going, where one bramble in the forest dissappears, another
   replaces it in lushness. I think its the balance of sunshine and also
   the way of the bramble, wanting to spread out and grow grow grow.
   Sometimes I come upon someone picking them for jelly and jam; once a
   man was picking and we started talking. He asked me where I was from,
   and I said California, to which he replied: “Do they have blackberries
   in California?”. Oh, yes, I exclaimed, hoping for an intelligent
   conversation about my now-favourite topic: my life with blackberries.
   But instead he told me: “you should go back there and pick blackerries
   in California and leave our berries alone!!!”.

   Another time, though, I was picking berries and a man jumped out of a
   bramble, with a big bag of berries, and we did have that happy
   conversation during which time he said, oh no he didn’t eat the
   berries, he made jam. And to prove it he ran into a nearby house and
   returned with a jar of thick black sweet jam. “For you” he said with a
   smile as he handed me the jar.

   Picking berries gave/gives me an excuse to spend time in the forest.
   Being on the hunt is exciting: where will I find the most fruitful
   bushes, fattest berries, pockets of berries with the darkest yet still
   gleaming colours.  This non-violent hunt has one target: deliciousness.

   And aside from the thrill of the chase, the pricetag of “free”, the
   abundance and generosity of the forest, my berry picking and eating
   taught me many things about blackberries. Mainly this: when you buy
   blackerries from a shop or even a farm, they all taste the same. When
   you pick them in the forest, they are hugely varied, each one unique,
   each spoonful of berries an entirely different mouthful from each
   other.

   Tasting my way through the forest–and each day is different, depending
   on sunshine, rain, temperature–as I pick, I put one in my mouth every
   so often, to taste: usually close my eyes, to really “get” its flavour,
   to feel on my tongue and in my mouth, the texture of the berry, too.
   Sometimes they are so full of sweet juice and so ripe that they melt,
   fall apart, simply dissolve in my mouth. That is usually when they are
   sweetest, too.

   But inbetween the sourness of the unripe or the under-sunned, and the
   sweetness of the over-ripe, there is a wide variety of tastes and
   flavours.

   Wild blackberries might have the depth of plums, their sweetness and
   tartness; at other times they might have the sweet roundness of black
   cherries, or if unripe, the sourness of wild cherries. Sometimes, when
   they are very sour they taste a little bit like gooseberries, though
   you need to taste this with closed eyes: gooseberries are green.
   Colours can confuse.

   And also, before we get to their sweet ripeness, there are bitter
   elements: this usually comes about when the season hasn’t had enough
   sunshine, and perhaps its had too much rain. Sometimes it extends past
   the advent of sunshine and the berries become a sort of bitter-sweet,
   without an acidic edge that the larger berries generally develop before
   they balance and the sugars triumph! The bitter berries are smaller,
   tighter, with tinier druplets that seem to be all seed. Instead of the
   sensual disolving into sweet juice, blackerries such as these need to
   be chewed. You could almost say they are tough, though only compared
   with other oh-so-soft-ripe blackberries.

   And it is those oh so ripe and soft berries that give you full berry
   happiness in taste: the berry that you pop into your mouth and find it
   tasting sweet, fruity, lyrical even, like……cream soda! like……cotton
   candy/candy floss! Today I picked some berries from a new patch, and
   they exhuded sweet lilacs, or lavender, depending on which berry.Its
   the unexpected variety of tastes–that hint of cinnamon, whiff of
   vanilla, whisper of bubble gum– that makes me throw back my head and
   laugh, then pop in another berry. Truly: when  tasting berries in the
   wild, you never know what the next one will be like!

   Other times they are sweet, yes, but flat; or they might be sweet and
   bitter; sometimes the little druplets are tiny, and the whole berry
   tiny, but you pick it anyhow. Sometimes those tiny little berries that
   consist of only a few big fat druplets, are delicious too!

   Devotion to the forest started with that first appearance of the
   blackberries in my life. Since then, it is as if I have taken a crash
   course, no….make that a university degree…..in blackberries.

   The perfect berry season needs several things in place: it needs nice
   strong sun at the right time, when the days are long, and it needs some
   rain, but not too much. One year we had so much rain that in the few
   sunny days the berries were able to ripen and go from red to black,
   before the rains came and rotted/moulded/ruined them all. Huge swaths
   of bramble bushes were covered with mould and other strange unpleasant
   growths…the blackberry forest simply gave up, and I waited until the
   next year. Most years are mixed, since the weather most summers are
   mixed. Too much rain rots the berries, that is the bottom line. There
   were wet years when few berries ripened before moulding; there was at
   least one year that was so fabulously hot I turned down a trip to
   Champagne as a guest of one of the great Champagne Houses, to stay near
   my forest until the end of the season.

   Then, there was the year after my accident when I didn’t go
   blackberrying at all: not only did I not have use of my hands and arms,
   but I was unable to taste. It was heartbreaking, how acutely sensitive
   I had once been to the nuances of blackberries and now, how I could
   taste, and smell, nothing. No acidity, no sweetness, no roundness of
   flavour or bitterness of bad weather. There was no reason to go pick
   berries, and in any event: the pain in my hands was excruciating.

   The next year I hit the forests again. I could taste a bit more, but
   not enough to kick in the thrill I once got from being in the forest,
   filling my mouth, signing with the deliciousness of the berries, then
   trotting home with a full basket….and my fingers were working, but not
   dextrous enough to carefully  pick a berry without crushing it, and
   hold onto it firmly enough to get it from the bramble bush into my bag
   or basket. Each time I dropped more berries than I was bringing home,
   and it was an excercise in heartbreak. One of the greatest pleasures–in
   fact, one of the ONLY pleasures, the thing that makes this little plot
   of land special, even bearable, was taken from me. I had no idea if it
   would be returned.

   When it is blackberry season I  gather berries every day.

   this mornings cache of berries

   Locals might gather them every so often, to make jam and jelly, but I
   love them fresh,

   Some of the things I make with blackberries: cheesecakes with
   blackberry toppings, buttermilk and blackberry smoothies, duck breast
   with blackberry sauce, blackberries with yogurt, added to a crumble
   with other summery fruit especially rhubarb, and blackberries suspended
   in elderflower gelee. Sometimes I make a “mess” that is, instead of the
   whipped cream-meringue and strawberry concoction known as Eton Mess, I
   make a “Waterlooville Mess”, Waterlooville being the name of my little
   town. Really it is. My favourite way to eat blackberries, though,  is
   probably a big bowl of ice cream and blackberries in place of dinner.

   The blackberries go on until about the end of September, around the
   time of Michaelmas, when they are once again covered with a weird
   substance, another mouldy strange horrible layer of substance, which
   renders them inedible. It is said that this substance is from the
   witches, who come to the blackberry forest after Michaelmas and spit on
   the berries. Really: once the witches have spit, you need to wait until
   the next year: they are inedible.

   "Waterlooville Mess" inspired by "Eton Mess"

   Waterlooville “Mess”

   Serves 4, can be doubled, tripled, multiplied

   In addition to the  blackberries, whose brambles which surround
   Waterlooville and for which I named this variation on Eton Mess, a
   concoction of whipped cream, strawberries and crisp broken up
   meringues, I added a touch of yogurt to cut the richness of the cream,
   and a hit of rose water, because my waterlooville garden has gorgeous,
   sweetly aromatic, roses. I should have scattered petals onto this
   picture, right?

   6 fl ounces/175 ml whipping or double cream

   6-8 rounded tablespoons confectioners/icing/powdered sugar

   3-4 tablespoons yogurt, any plain type: low fat, greek, fat free, etc

   A few droplet of vanilla extract or rosewater to taste

   About 2 cups ripe blackberries

   6-8 small meringues, or as many as desired, broken into bite sized
   pieces

   Whip the cream into soft billows, then gradually add the
   confectioners/icing/powdered sugar and keep whipping until it is firm,
   just before it turns to butter. Important to catch it before its too
   late!

   Fold in the yogurt and either rose water or vanilla, mix well, then the
   berries and don’t really mix well at all, just sort of fold in
   unevenly. Add the meringues, and either eat right away, or chill until
   ready to serve; can be made ahead a day or two and covered to protect
   its delicate foresty flavours.

   IFRAME:
   [30]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=944&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font
   =arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [31]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [32]Uri
   9 Aug 14

   Written by [33]Marlena, [34]Comments (0)

[35]And Then We Had Lunch: Spicy Soup!

   [36]It was hot, so swelteringly hot, as we shlepped along the busy
   street we were staying on, looking  for lunch. The down side of being
   in such an unspoiled, and authentic place such as Daxing, meant that
   there were no English signs or menus: we didn’t have a clue as to what
   each restaurant  served, and it was kind of….you know….scary.  Looking
   from the outside sometimes we approached a door to look in and check
   out the restaurant, only to find that it wasn’t even a restaurant at
   all! Thats when we discovered the hot soup place! Apparantly, its a
   “thing”:  restaurants that specialize in soup, brewing up a rich rich
   stock, and offering an array of vegetables, meats, fish, and different
   types of noodles. You collect what you want, taking the bits with
   tongs, as if you were in a bakery, or a grocery store, and placing it
   all in a plastic tub. You hand over the tub to the woman in a little
   window, pay, and before long a server comes out with a big bowl of
   everything all cooked.

          This is the girl who took our ingredients and turned it into
          soup!

   I added a bit of all the vegetables–bean sprouts, cabbage, bok choy,
   bamboo shoots,  put in a big handful of rice noodles, then piled in a
   whole array of different types of tofu: fried, smoked, soft, firm,
   marinated. I didn’t add fish or meat, but they were there, as were
   different types of noodles: wheat, mung bean, wide, narrow, frizzy. It
   was a little bit confusing, like an all-you-can-eat salad bar where you
   end up with everything piled onto one plate.

   But luckily, it didn’t end up this way: no matter what you put into
   your soup, the  broth was rich and spicy– sooooooo very spicy–memorably
   umami, in other words: salty spicy crazy-good. It was not just like a
   consomme broth, but was dense with crushed black sesame, studded with
   whole peanuts, and floated a thin layer of red chile oil. Once your
   vegetables and other ingredients went in, they came out transformed; in
   fact, I felt a bit transformed by eating the soup as well. That heat,
   made me perspire, the perspiration evaporated and felt lovely and cool.
   The flavour of the broth perked me up. Yes, after that soup: better in
   every way.

   I’ve made versions of the soup since my return, though sadly, none have
   yet been as amazing, refreshing, and invigorating as that bowlful I ate
   on that hot afternoon.

   IFRAME:
   [37]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=932&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font
   =arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [38]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [39]Uri
   9 Aug 14

   Written by [40]Marlena, [41]Comments (0)

[42]The Watermelon Museum and Mr. Song’s Melon Farm

   When I was trying to decide if I could afford to go to the Gourmand
   Cookbook Fair and Awards event in Daxing, Beijing, I was swayed by some
   of the unique activities, places and things that it never would have
   dawned on me to get to otherwise. Lets start with The Watermelon
   Museum.

   Daxing, a rural and suburban area of Beijing, located in the southern
   part of its 5th ring road, is also the watermelon capital of China, for
   this reason, there is a huge and amazing museum dedicated to the
   watermelon. It was–and while I really don’t like using this word,
   thinking it a lazy way out–awesome. Really awesome.

   First of all, even just the idea of having such a museum is awesome.
   Second of all, it wasn’t just a little room, a shack filled with

   Here we are, on the steps of The Watermelon Museum

   hand-made displays depicting this regions prize fruit. No, it was a
   tall, massive building, whose front reminded me of the art in
   Rockerfeller Center, the steps seemingly leading to a temple of
   worship, a library, or a museum of note. An important museum.

   IFRAME:
   [43]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=924&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font
   =arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [44]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [45]Uri
   7 Aug 14

   Written by [46]Marlena, [47]Comments (0)

[48]Daxing Rose Festival

   The agricultural corner of Bejing, in its fifth ring road, Daxing, is
   known for several specialities: roses and watermelon, and since the
   cookbook fair and awards event was held in late May, the roses and
   melons were growing lushly. In fact, at every meal there were wedges of
   watermelon, usually red but sometimes yellow, always sweet, crisp and
   juicy, the question really was: HOW SWEET, HOW JUICY, HOW CRISP? There
   were meals in which the melons exceeded the laws of physics in their
   sweetness, juiciness and crispness. It was actually thrilling to bite
   into the melons and see what would happen next. Even when they were
   merely okay, they were refreshingly delicious. We’ll get to the
   watermelons in the next posting.

   First off was the Rose Festival.  The bus, organized by Daxing’s
   equivilant of the chamber of commerce or perhaps the city council,
   arrived at 10 am for those of us who wanted to play hooky from the
   cookbook fair and be a part of the festivities. I may have been first
   on the bus; I love roses.

   All visitors to the Rose Festival were greeted with great festivities,
   both on our way in, and on our way out: there were acrobats, kung-fu
   demonstrations, and a gathering of drum players–two long lines of gaily
   costumed women enthusiastically banging on big drums ushered us down a
   long walkway and into the hall of flowers.

   Traditional caligraphy and brushstroke demonstrations depicted roses, a
   garden of rose drawings.

   And there was a fashion show of rose-inspired gowns and frocks…..below
   left, you can see each model (in the sweltering summer heat) carrying
   the flower arrangement that had inspired her dress.  I sat on the side
   and could see backstage, where, in true catwalk style, the  fashion
   designer, flitting about backstage all a-twitter, nervously fluffing up
   and patting down, getting his models looking  their best in his
   designs.

   I don’t know when i’ve ever seen such enthusiasm for a task such as
   these women showed for playing their drums: it was hard, and energetic,
   and the weather was hot, and they were drumming for all they were
   worth. Their presentation was awesome in more ways than I can try to
   explain: it sounded wonderful and stirring; and the looks on the
   women’s faces was heart-warming. It was love, the love of doing
   something well and all-encompassing. The love on the faces of all
   performers.

   When I showed an interest, I was surrounded by “teachers”

   Here I am getting a lesson in drumming from the gals

   my teacher was very enthusiastic. and scary.

   IFRAME:
   [49]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=907&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font
   =arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [50]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [51]Uri
   4 Aug 14

   Written by [52]Marlena, [53]Comments (0)

[54]First Night: Dinner in Daxing

   We left off, a few posting back, with my first meal upon reaching the
   Daxing region of China’s capital, Bejing. If you remember the plate, it
   will filled with dumplings, delicious noodles wrapped around chopped
   leafy greens. In case you wondered who was making the dumplings, chef
   allowed me into the kitchen to help, and though he looks a bit hesitant
   in this foto, and I look a bit over-eager, in fact, he said: “Very
   Good!”. And he ate my dumpling right up! There were dumplings
   everywhere, steamed dumplings and fried dumplings, sweet fat boiled
   dough filled with bean paste and paper thin noodles wrapped around
   seafood or meat, there were dumplings in soup and dumplings that were
   filled WITH soup, dumplings with sauce and dumplings awash in red chile
   oil. there were bao and jiaozi, tang yuan, xiao longao, wuntun, siu mai
   and dumplings I had no idea what their names were.

   The  dumplings in this picture to the left are not, as they appear to
   be, small hamburgers, but a tender version of a small english
   muffin-like dumpling,  split into two and filled with a savoury meat
   mixture, salty, spicy, with a hit of cumin. Its said that the dish was
   dreamt up by the Empress Cixi, literally: a dish that came to her in a
   dream and the next day she had her chefs whip up her vision. To be
   honest, they are available in many places, some better than others,
   some mediocre, and some fantastic. There were dumplings and also bread
   doughs steamed so that they were somewhere between a bread and
   dumpling: steamed cornbread was one of my favourites.

   there were noodles rolled around a mixture of meats and greens, then
   pan browned, to the left–these were delectable– and to the right: puffy
   bread dough filled with meats or vegetables then steamed; these
   steamed/baked dumplings, bao, were filled with a much wider array of
   mixtures than I’ve found abroad: kung pao chicken filled bao were
   wonderful!

   [55]Another was a strange chewy dough, tang yuan, made of ground rice;
   to be honest, chewy doesn’t even come close to describing it: the
   dumpling slithers around your mouth, you think that maybe you will be
   chewing it forever, that maybe you will chew it for the rest of your
   life and onto the next one, too, but suddenly you’ve managed to swallow
   it and in that compelling way that many unusual foods have, you feel
   like: yes, i’m ready for another one! The tang yuan I was fond of were
   stuffed with black sesame seed and served with a sweet syrup; i was
   told that it could be eaten as a savoury dumpling, too, with either a
   bean paste and/or pork filling instead of sweet sesame.

   And, because I don’t want you thinking I ate a very unbalanced meal of
   dumplings dumplings and more dumplings, there were greens! seafood!
   tofu salad! and my favourite, cucumber salad: garlicky, spicy, halfway
   on the road to being a pickle. Cucumber salad is a very good reason to
   go to Beijing, I say flippantly,  in case the Great Wall, Forbidden
   City and amazing ancient/modern culture isn’t enough. Cucumber salad:
   always a good reason to travel the world if you love cucumbers as much
   as I do.

   chrysanthemum leaf salad

   Besides the chryanthemum leaf salad and the garlicky cucumbers, I was
   also very fond of shoestrings of tofu, tossed in sesame oil dressing.

   bamboo shoots, shredded cabbage, cloud ears, chopped greens......

   my beloved garlicky cucumber salad

   IFRAME:
   [56]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=874&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font
   =arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [57]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [58]Uri
   3 Aug 14

   Written by [59]Marlena, [60]Comments (0)

[61]You need to do THIS, this summer: Steap Tarragon in Vinegar

   My first culinary “business” , a zillion years ago, was making herbal
   vinegars: steeping a myriad of herbs in various vinegars: white and red
   wine, as well as rice. I made a rather sweet handcrafted label with one
   of my line drawings, slapped them onto the old wine bottles I gathered,
   then filled up the bottles with mostly vinegar, as well as a hit of
   wine and a few BIG sprigs of herbs, either a single herb or a mixture.
   I arranged them on shelves built across a window so that they could
   infuse more quickly as the light shone down on them: that was my idea
   anyhow, based on no science whatsoever that I knew of. It was just that
   they looked so beautiful, like stained glass, as the light filtered
   through.

   And they were delicious. Looks wise my favourite was the rosemary,
   because the sprig/branch held up so nicely, and the little peppercorns
   I added as well as the thyme branches, it was like an herb garden in
   the bottle. But the one whose flavour has haunted me throughout these
   years is that of tarragon. Every so often I”ll be doing something and
   think of that luscious, tangy, sour+fragrant+herbal scent of tarragon
   leaves pickled in vinegar, of vinegar infused with tarragon.

   But to be honest, I tend to add fresh herbs to dressings, vinaigrettes,
   and the like, at the last minute instead of flavouring the vinegars.
   This summer, I changed my mind, due in large part to my hugely
   energetic tarragon patch. I started sticking bunches of tarragon
   leaves, in sprigs, or chopped, or a combination, into jars of white
   wine vinegar. Within a few days it is infused, I use it and use it and
   use it, then use up the tarragon as well. Somewhere along the way, when
   I see it dwindling and the vinegar level getting lower, I start another
   jar.

   This summer has been my summer of tarragon vinegar. And, like
   Sebastian, the young French student who came to dinner the other
   evening, we’ve been loving the elusive yet compelling taste and aroma.
   Here are a few of our salads.

   Asparagus and Small Delicious Tomatoes with Tarragon

   If you’ve got homegrown, or farmers market shopped, oh now is the time
   to make this salad!

   Serves 4, or half it to serve two

   1 small bunch thin asparagus, tough ends snapped off

   1 teaspoon French mustard, not to hot/strong, such as Maille

   2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar (see description above) or white wine
   vinegar

   1 pint box small delicious tomatoes, such as sweet grape or cherry
   ones, yellow and/or red, cut into halves

   salt and pepper to taste

   2-3 teaspoons fresh tarragon leaves, cut up

   Drizzle of evoo

   Cut the asparagus into spears several inches long; cook in rapidly
   boiling salted water for a minute or two or until bright green, still
   crunchy but getting tender; drain and arrange on a platter and leave to
   cool to room temperature.

   Combine the mustard with the vinegar and stir well until smooth.

   When asparagus is cool, scatter the top with the tomatoes, drizzle the
   mustard vinegar over the top, sprinkle with salt and pepper, tarragon
   leaves, then drizzle with the evoo. As to exactly HOW much of the
   mustard vinegar to use, you need to go with your tastes: some like a
   less sharp salad, some like me, love it tart tart tart!

   Iceberg, Walnuts, St Agur or another lovely flavourful blue cheese,
   (Optional) Diced Beets, Green Beans, Chives and Tarragon

   Serves 4

   1 head iceberg lettuce, washed and broken up into chunks; chill in the
   refrigerator wrapped in a clean towel in a bowl, until you’re ready to
   serve

   Handful thin green beans, topped and tailed

   3 oz/ 175g St Agur or other creamy flavourful blue cheese, cut into
   small bite sized pieces

   Optional: 1 cooked beetroot, diced (vacuum-packed if fine)

   3-4 tablespoons coarsely chopped or quartered walnuts

   Several tablespoons chopped chives

   Several tablespoons chopped tarragon

   About 2 teaspoons tarragon steaped vinegar (see description above), or
   to taste

   About 1-2 tablespoons evoo, or as desired

   Salt and pepper to taste

   Cook the green beans in boiling salted water or steam them in a
   steamer, until they are crisp-tender. Drain and rinse in cold water.
   Set aside.

   When you are ready to put together the salad, remove chilled lettuce
   and bowl from fridge, unwrap the lettuce from its towel and return to
   the chilled bowl.

   Scatter with the green beans, the cheese, beetroot if using, the
   walnuts, then the chives and tarragon, sprinkling with salt and pepper
   to taste. Dress with the vinegar and evoo, and serve.

   IFRAME:
   [62]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=865&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font
   =arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [63]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [64]Uri
   31 Jul 14

   Written by [65]Marlena, [66]Comments (0)

[67]Pappa al Pomodoro!

   Pappa al Pomodoro!

   The delicious Tuscan “mush” of stale bread soaked into luscious
   tomato-ish soup, served with a splash of evoo and leaves of aromatic
   sweet basil. Of course, in the summer–and I’m writing this at the
   beginning of August–pappa al pomodoro is all about sweet ripe fresh
   from the vine summer tomatoes; but in the winter, pappa is also
   delicious eating with canned tomatoes–I once went on a vineyard
   visiting tour which ended up feeling more like a pappa al pomodoro
   tour, as each of my hosts brought out a bowlful of the thick
   uber-savoury mixture, saying: this wine, its perfect with pappa al
   pomodoro! I remember one host saying: “yes, even in the winter I love
   it: use good quality Italian canned tomatoes!”.

   If you’ve ever spooned up pappa al pomodoro, you know it is soooooo
   soothing, comforting, and ever-so-filling. My friend Judy, in Tuscany,
   likes it so thick “I can eat it with a knife and fork”. For that,
   though, you need really fabulous bread: bread with substance and
   flavour that doesn’t turn gummy. The best bread to use is bread that is
   very very dry; Judy uses unseasoned croutons, I simply save bread as it
   stales and let it go very hard. What I don’t use for the pappa will
   another time become bread pudding.

   In keeping with the spirit of this dish, my measurements are not so
   exact that you need adhere to them. For one thing, your bread will have
   different thickening qualities as it will be a different bread and a
   different degree of dryness. Ditto for your tomatoes; in fact, I
   recommend that you use half fresh and half canned tomatoes for this as
   the canned tomatoes have a more intense flavour from the cooking
   involved in canning. I don’t mind tomato skins, however; if you do,
   you’ll need to skin the tomatoes before using them.

   And though tomatoes are already little umami-bursts, I’m letting you
   into a little secret:  I like to add a mysterious umami-boost in the
   form of  a porcini bouillion/stock cube, in fact, for 6 cups/1 litre of
   water, I use two cubes. You can’t really taste it, but the pappa tastes
   elusively and indefinably more savoury. Chicken or vegetable broth, or
   plain water, are equally though slightly differently, delicious. If you
   can’t find porcini boullion cubes, take a few dried porcini mushroom
   slices and crush in a mortar and pestle, or just break up, and add to
   the simmering soup. If its crushed you don’t know its there, if its in
   small pieces, okay, you know its there, but is that a bad thing? when
   its porcini, i think its always a good thing. but there IS something to
   be said for mystery.

   6-8 cloves garlic; lightly crushed (I leave the skins on as they fall
   apart during cooking and its so much easier)

   About 1/4 cup evoo

   3-4 cups ripe tomatoes, coarsely chopped

   1 can/tin (about 350g/14 oz) chopped or plum tomatoes, broken up

   6 cups/1 litre broth, water, or combination broth+water

   1 loaf country bread (1 lb loaf), cut or broken up, and left to grow
   stale; if it is not stale enough to the point of dryness, place it in a
   low oven for half an hour to an hour, then check for dryness). The
   dryer it is, the more it will absorb the liquid and become thick rather
   than gummy.

   Tiny pinch hot pepper, or add a whole pod of a smallish dried chile at
   the beginning with the garlic, then fish it out at the end.

   In a heavy soup pot heat the olive oil until hot but not smoking, then
   add the garlic and stir around, letting it just gild and smell
   gorgeous; you do not want to brown it. I”m talking seconds here.

   Add the ripe tomatoes, and cook it together, until it becomes somewhat
   saucey, say 10 minutes, then add the canned tomatoes, broth and water.

   Bring to the boil, cook together about 10 minutes, then add the bread.
   Cover and remove from the heat; let it sit together as the bread
   absorbs the liquid, stirring it and breaking it up as it does. In case
   you have big pieces of bread that refuse to break up, use a big wooden
   spoon.

   Pappa is best at room temperature although you can reheat it and eat it
   warm. To serve: ladle into bowls and scatter lots of fresh basil over
   the top, drizzle with evoo, and sprinkle with a little coarse salt if
   liked/needed.

   P.S. I ate the leftover pappa al pomodoro for breakfast and then went
   to the pool for an hour of garlic-breath powered laps; kinda the best
   morning ever.

   IFRAME:
   [68]http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler
   .com/?p=856&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font
   =arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US

   Filed under: [69]Uncategorized
   Trackback: [70]Uri
   [71]Older Posts »

Pages

     * [72]About
     * [73]Blog
     * [74]Events

Latest Tweets

     * [75]3 hours ago RT @Gefiltefest: RT @Kokopellis_Choc:
       '@marlenaspieler Came to your fab @Gefiltefest session - now making
       your preserved lemons'
     * [76]11 hours ago @Kokopellis_Choc put one in warm window or
       cupboard,one in fridge.thats what i usually do so i have some
       quick, and some that r ready later
     * [77]19 hours ago @kitchensense @kkrader @PaulLiebrandt don't be
       afraid, escaping butter, i'm just going to kiss
       you.......bwaaahaaaaa..you delicious thing U
     * [78]19 hours ago @kitchensense @kkrader @PaulLiebrandt "escaping
       butter" COME THIS WAY! you'll be safe right here,on my plate,on my
       lips!
     * [79]22 hours ago @Kokopellis_Choc @Gefiltefest depend on weather;in
       fridge r more stable,but longer 2 cure; sunny window faster but
       tiny risk rot.1 jar each?

Recent Comments

     * Shelley on [80]It Started with a Dance and Ended up with Chicken!
     * Shelley on [81]Moi, in Paris, with a plate o perky peppers! (filled
       with chevre, sooooooo good!)
     * [82]Marlena on [83]Taiwanese preserved turnip omelet
     * [84]http://www.lowkole.pl/pck/node/5#comment-19928 on [85]Taiwanese
       preserved turnip omelet
     * [86]divinacucina on [87]Taiwanese preserved turnip omelet

Meta

     * [88]Register
     * [89]Log in
     * [90]Entries RSS
     * [91]Comments RSS
     * [92]WordPress.org

Archives

     * [93]August 2014
     * [94]July 2014
     * [95]June 2014
     * [96]May 2014
     * [97]April 2014
     * [98]January 2014
     * [99]November 2013
     * [100]September 2013
     * [101]August 2013
     * [102]July 2013
     * [103]June 2013
     * [104]May 2013
     * [105]April 2013
     * [106]March 2013
     * [107]January 2013
     * [108]December 2012
     * [109]June 2012
     * [110]March 2011
     * [111]September 2010
     * [112]October 2009

Blogroll

Pages

     * [113]About
     * [114]Blog
     * [115]Events

Meta

     * [116]Register
     * [117]Log in
     * [118]Valid XHTML

   Greenxi theme by [119]Colixiodesign | Powered by [120]WordPress
   [121]Entries (RSS), [122]Comments (RSS)

References

   Visible links
   1. http://marlenaspieler.com/?feed=rss2
   2. http://marlenaspieler.com/
   3. http://marlenaspieler.com/
   4. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-login.php?action=register
   5. http://marlenaspieler.com/
   6. http://marlenaspieler.com/?feed=rss2
   7. http://marlenaspieler.com/?feed=comments-rss2
   8. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
   9. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=1064#respond
  10. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=1064
  11. http://www.amazon.co.uk/Yummy-Potatoes-Downright-Delicious-Recipes-ebook/dp/B00ANC32Y6–
  12. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=1064&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  13. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  14. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=1064
  15. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  16. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=1033#respond
  17. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=1033
  18. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=1033&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  19. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  20. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=1033
  21. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  22. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=979#respond
  23. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=979
  24. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=979&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  25. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  26. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=979
  27. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  28. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=944#respond
  29. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=944
  30. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=944&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  31. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  32. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=944
  33. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  34. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=932#respond
  35. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=932
  36. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-01.13.27.jpg
  37. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=932&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  38. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  39. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=932
  40. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  41. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=924#respond
  42. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=924
  43. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=924&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  44. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  45. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=924
  46. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  47. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=907#respond
  48. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=907
  49. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=907&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  50. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  51. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=907
  52. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  53. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=874#respond
  54. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=874
  55. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-20.23.42.jpg
  56. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=874&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  57. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  58. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=874
  59. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  60. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=865#respond
  61. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=865
  62. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=865&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  63. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  64. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=865
  65. http://marlenaspieler.com/?author=2
  66. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=856#respond
  67. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=856
  68. http://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=856&layout=standard&show_faces=false&width=150&action=like&font=arial&colorscheme=light&height=250&locale=en_US
  69. http://marlenaspieler.com/?cat=1
  70. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-trackback.php?p=856
  71. http://marlenaspieler.com/?paged=2
  72. http://marlenaspieler.com/?page_id=2
  73. http://marlenaspieler.com/?page_id=37
  74. http://marlenaspieler.com/?page_id=43
  75. http://twitter.com/marlenaspieler/statuses/344516929949679618
  76. http://twitter.com/marlenaspieler/statuses/344404400510492672
  77. http://twitter.com/marlenaspieler/statuses/344287787190738944
  78. http://twitter.com/marlenaspieler/statuses/344287131553898496
  79. http://twitter.com/marlenaspieler/statuses/344237080718749696
  80. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=260&cpage=1#comment-10515
  81. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=217&cpage=1#comment-10514
  82. http://www.marlenaspieler.com/
  83. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=211&cpage=1#comment-9502
  84. http://www.lowkole.pl/pck/node/5#comment-19928
  85. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=211&cpage=1#comment-9501
  86. http://www.divinacucina-blog.com/
  87. http://marlenaspieler.com/?p=211&cpage=1#comment-9492
  88. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-login.php?action=register
  89. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-login.php
  90. http://marlenaspieler.com/?feed=rss2
  91. http://marlenaspieler.com/?feed=comments-rss2
  92. http://wordpress.org/
  93. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201408
  94. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201407
  95. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201406
  96. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201405
  97. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201404
  98. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201401
  99. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201311
 100. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201309
 101. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201308
 102. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201307
 103. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201306
 104. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201305
 105. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201304
 106. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201303
 107. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201301
 108. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201212
 109. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201206
 110. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201103
 111. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=201009
 112. http://marlenaspieler.com/?m=200910
 113. http://marlenaspieler.com/?page_id=2
 114. http://marlenaspieler.com/?page_id=37
 115. http://marlenaspieler.com/?page_id=43
 116. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-login.php?action=register
 117. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-login.php
 118. http://validator.w3.org/check/referer
 119. http://www.colixiodesign.com/
 120. http://wordpress.org/
 121. http://marlenaspieler.com/?feed=rss2
 122. http://marlenaspieler.com/?feed=comments-rss2

   Hidden links:
 124. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-25-13.14.093.jpg
 125. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-27-04.41.38.jpg
 126. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-20-15.48.49.jpg
 127. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-17-14.50.591.jpg
 128. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-00.32.26.jpg
 129. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-23.55.28.jpg
 130. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-23.29.04.jpg
 131. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-00.01.511.jpg
 132. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-22.44.203.jpg
 133. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-00.20.14.jpg
 134. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-19-23.43.021.jpg
 135. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-23.49.10.jpg
 136. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-00.33.36.jpg
 137. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-23.35.18.jpg
 138. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-22.50.45.jpg
 139. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-23.48.14.jpg
 140. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-00.36.12.jpg
 141. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-23.57.52.jpg
 142. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-21-00.08.20.jpg
 143. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-21-00.10.31.jpg
 144. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-08-09.38.05.jpg
 145. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-08-09.24.57.jpg
 146. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-26-03.27.03.jpg
 147. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-26-03.26.291.jpg
 148. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-26-03.29.03.jpg
 149. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-08-09.26.34.jpg
 150. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-08-09.47.56.jpg
 151. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-12-05.52.41.jpg
 152. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-08-10.02.19.jpg
 153. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-12-09.43.23.jpg
 154. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-01.13.27.jpg
 155. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-01.13.27.jpg
 156. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-01.13.27.jpg
 157. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-01.03.11.jpg
 158. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-20-01.06.37.jpg
 159. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-19-21.29.041.jpg
 160. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-19-21.13.22.jpg
 161. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-21.51.59.jpg
 162. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-21.47.36.jpg
 163. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-21.49.30.jpg
 164. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-22.14.441.jpg
 165. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-22.32.22.jpg
 166. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-21.43.181.jpg
 167. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-22.11.20.jpg
 168. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-22.11.33.jpg
 169. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-08.30.28.jpg
 170. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-09.05.42.jpg
 171. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-09.04.18.jpg
 172. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-09.06.461.jpg
 173. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-24-03.15.07.jpg
 174. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-09.05.49.jpg
 175. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-19.38.131.jpg
 176. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2012-11-15-11.11.49.jpg
 177. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-19.38.22.jpg
 178. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-05-18-19.38.45.jpg
 179. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-07-29-12.25.43.jpg
 180. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/2014-08-02-15.31.40.jpg
 181. http://marlenaspieler.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/2014-07-31-08.38.19.jpg
