   #[1]Raishimi33 » Feed [2]Raishimi33 » Comments Feed [3]Raishimi33
   [4]WordPress.com

[5]Raishimi33

My Thoughts, Your Time

   [6]September 28, 2014 by [7]raishimi33

[8]Riddle-Speak

   “The naming of cats is a difficult matter
   It’s isn’t just one of your holiday games…”

   So said T.S Eliot, and I’m inclined to agree with him. Three names
   apiece, one of which “THE CAT HIMSELF KNOWS, and will never confess” –
   I have enough trouble remembering my own, what with all of these
   trailing diminutives; feathery scraps of childhood.

   There are many things to love about the felidae. The light behind their
   eyes, that tapetum lucidum, so as to to see between worlds. The way
   they will greet, not with the wet manners of a dog, but with a dry nose
   and tall tail-tip. There is a certain pleasure to be had in noting the
   pause, the wavering head, as they watch for your approach with open
   hands and blue-black tone. Even the most docile feline carries the
   glint of a smile.

   Creatures like the crocodile and the hawk were worked into the pyramid
   walls of ancient Egypt, were known as gods and goddesses under the
   papyrus light; surrounded by hieroglyphics simple in their elegance
   and, at times, complex as data encryption.

   [9]sobek horus
   [10]http://www.123rf.com

   [11]Horus and [12]Sobek and of course, [13]Bastet – the cat goddess,
   cast in the half-light as [14]both protector and warrior, associated
   with the sun (as the daughter of Re/Ra) and [15]the moon, via Artemis
   and the Greeks. Whatever can be taken from this mythology, it’s
   certainly a truth that cats are [16]crepescular by nature, at their
   most active in the pale thresholds before conscious thought, when all
   lines are blurred as a Nocturne.

   [17]Firefly Glow
   kfrose.blogspot.com

   A cat who would speak with you at length, speaks through the
   riddle-dance that is appealing in its vagueness. Easy to lose yourself
   between the muted lines, to forget what it was you were meaning to ask.
   This is a preferable state when running from details, responsibilities,
   predictabilities, but the adult world is seemingly governed by such
   tedious moments, when only the finest-nib clarity will do. I’ve caught
   myself laughing (rueful rub of the cheek) at my own frustration with an
   Access Denied. Encouragement reaps its own rewards.

   Who would go so far as to break his own limbs to walk as a cat, when no
   cat would wish to walk as a man?

   “Whatever the Alchemist had turned itself into wasn’t a cat.
   Half clothed in mist, it trudged painfully towards them from some lunar
   distance, supporting itself on a staff made from the leg of a panther…
   Lost in a maze of ruptured highways – burning with rage and desire down
   every wrenched, coppery perspective, tottering through constant
   darkness towards every gleam of daylight, deluded by mirror-images, led
   astray by the very mathematics that had allowed it to penetrate the Old
   Changing Way: deceived, dazed and disorientated – it had begun to
   disintegrate. Where cat and catskin had once run seamlessly together,
   all was in rags.” – Gabriel King, [18]“The Wild Road.”

   Crippled by his own hand, each limb contorted and tortured into the
   supple lines of the feral way, the Alchemist is infused with the energy
   of sacrificial victims. To control the Golden Cat – that symbolic focus
   of all natural life – he would walk the wild roads, tying them up in
   agonized knots, to gain power over this world and the next. We know the
   highways as “leylines”, in folk lore; but King – the pseudonym of
   writing pair Jane Johnson and M. John Harrison – employs a lexicon and
   syntax reminiscent of the free will carried in all wild things, taking
   the audience between transitions of wary poise, spitfire instinct and
   playfulness. On the ghost-roads, the smallest feline casts a long and
   sabre-toothed shadow.

   It was through The Wild Road that I became aware of “narrative voice”
   as something distinct from my own, or that of authors I admired. The
   protagonist, Tag, is a Burmilla kitten whose movements leap out from
   the page in keeping with his thoughts:

   “‘Alone”, thought Tag.
   He tested this idea until sudden panic swept through him. He ran round
   and round the lawn until he was tired again. He licked his fur in the
   sunshine for ten minutes. He couldn’t think what to do. He jumped up
   onto a windowsill and rubbed both sides of his face on the window pane.
   “Breakfast!” he demanded. But clearly it would not be feeding him
   today…
   He had a new idea. He would feed himself.
   “Eat a bee,” he thought.
   He thought: “Eat more than one.”
   And he tore off excitedly across the lawn.’ – pg 20

   This staccato style would quickly become tiresome in another context.
   This is a life lived close to the ground, defined by the smallest
   details: that which only a cat would notice and remark upon. Dappled
   with feline lore and mythology, the novel is narrated in the singular
   (Tag) and the plural – the nine lives of the cat – infused with the
   innocent-arrogance of the species.

   “Those families bade us welcome and we went into their homes of our own
   free will, and stayed on our own terms. They treated us like deities,
   each cat a god in its own house – gifts and offerings, and prayers for
   a share in our fertilitiltiy and health, for they were a sickly and
   superstitious lot.
   Before long, they were raising temples, drawing our image on the walls
   like their ancestors before them. In the new drawings we were guardians
   of the doors of night, guardians of the realms of the dead. We sat at
   the frontiers of the shadow kingdom; we watched over the spirits of the
   dead, to guard them in their long sleep.
   The same old fears, the same old hopes.” – pg 172.

   Each twisting strand weaves the historical with the modern, passing
   from Bubastis through London to Tintagel head, along the ghost-roads
   where nothing is quite what it seems. It hit me between the eyes. Aged
   eleven, seeking something more than the well-shaped but quaint books
   that had papered my childhood thus far. They were too obviously human.
   When Tag chases bubbles around his home, he is “as leggy and unsteady,
   as easily surprised, as easy to tease, as full of daft energy as every
   kitten”, progressing from this haven of soft humans and pale light into
   the wider world; drawn on his quest by a mischievous magpie with an
   agenda, and a one-eyed black cat with a life layered by papyrus, frost
   and fire. As even the Majicou knew, through his collective lives as
   keeper of the roads, the power to move between the primal state and the
   domestic one comes with a price:

   ‘”So”, he said, “what am I to tell you, Tag?
   That if, as the pretty myth has it, cats are allotted nine lives, I
   have lived out eight of mine? It would be true to say that. That I am
   as old as the highways I care for, and which sustain me in return? That
   cats once got up on their hind legs at night and held not just a
   parliament but a just parliament with human beings? Ridiculous. No cat
   has ever wanted to walk like a man. Yet it’s a pity we can’t talk to
   them, Tag.”‘ – pgs 135-6.

   Such a care, to know what you cannot speak of.

   Peter .S. Beagle’s story, The Last Unicorn, is a work of art coloured
   bittersweet with a love transcending shape and time. The scars on the
   face of a warrior, the marks on a wizard’s hands, map their own
   stories. Even as the unicorn leaves an inevitable trail along the roads
   of mankind, so the world of mortality marks her in turn with the
   necessary lessons of care and regret; a heavier burden for one who had
   lived pale and distant as the moon.

   “The sky spins and drags everything along with it … but you stand
   still. You never see anything just once. I wish you could be a princess
   for a little while, or a flower, or a duck. Something that can’t wait.”
   – Molly Grue.

   When changed into a woman by the well-meaning (somewhat undisciplined)
   magician Schmendrick, to save her from the Red Bull, the wilderness
   lives on in her eyes, for a time at least; but the grey world heaps
   dust on the memories of wild beasts and woodlands, and that aching fear
   for her people which began the quest, begins to fade:

   “Now I am two – myself, and this other that you call ‘my lady’. For she
   is here as truly as I am now, though once she was only a veil over me.
   She walks in the castle, she sleeps, she dresses herself, she takes her
   meals, and she thinks her own thoughts. If she has no power to heal, or
   to quiet, still she has another magic. Men speak to her, saying ‘Lady
   Amalthea’, and she answers them, or she does not answer. The king is
   always watching her out of his pale eyes, wondering what she is, and
   the king’s son wounds himself with loving her and wonders who she is.
   And every day she searches the sea and the sky, the castle and the
   courtyard, the keep and the king’s face, for something she cannot
   always remember. What is it, what is it that she is seeking in this
   strange place? She knew a moment ago, but she has forgotten.”

   She turned her face to Molly Grue, and her eyes were not the unicorn’s
   eyes. They were lovely still, but in a way that had a name, as a human
   woman is beautiful. Their depth could be sounded and learned, and their
   degree of darkness was quite describable. Molly saw fear and loss and
   bewilderment when she looked into them, and herself; and nothing more.’
   – Ch 10.

   Yet it is the cat of King Haggard’s castle who knows her for what she
   is. Bound by his own language to speak through the twisting riddles, of
   what is and what might be, his truth is never more than an eye-glow.

   “How do you know she is a unicorn?” Molly demanded. “And why were you
   afraid to let her touch you? I saw you. You were afraid of her.”
   “I doubt that I will feel like talking for very long,” the cat replied
   without rancor. “I would not waste time in foolishness if I were you.
   As to your first question, no cat out of its first fur can ever be
   deceived by appearances. Unlike human beings, who enjoy them…. You have
   very little time. Soon she will no longer remember who she is, or why
   she came to this place, and the Red Bull will no longer roar in the
   night for her. It may be that she will marry the good prince, who loves
   her…”‘

   “When the wine drinks itself,” he said, “when the skull speaks, when
   the clock strikes the right time – only then will you find the tunnel
   that leads to the Red Bull’s lair.” He tucked his paws under his chest
   and added, “There’s a trick to it, of course.”

   “I’ll bet,” Molly said grimly… “oh, cat, wouldn’t it be simpler just to
   show me the tunnel? You know where it is, don’t you?”
   “Of course I know,” answered the cat, with a glinting, curling yawn.
   “Of course it would be simpler for me to show you. Save a lot of time
   and trouble.”

   His voice was becoming a sleepy drawl, and Molly realized that, like
   King Haggard himself, he was losing interest. Quickly she asked him,
   “Tell me one thing, then. What became of the unicorns? Where are they?”
   The cat yawned again. “Near and far, far and near,” he murmured. “They
   are within sight of your lady’s eyes, but almost out of reach of her
   memory. They are coming closer, and they are going away.” He closed his
   eyes.

   Molly’s breath came like rope, fretting against her harsh throat. “Damn
   you, why won’t you help me?” she cried. “Why must you always speak in
   riddles?”
   One eye opened slowly, green and gold as sunlight in the woods. The cat
   said, “I am what I am. I would tell you what you want to know if I
   could, for you have been kind to me. But I am a cat, and no cat
   anywhere ever gave anyone a straight answer.”‘

   The cat knows what it knows, and will continue to look on our world
   with a crooked head and a mutable smile. We’re still new to the game,
   after all.
   Posted in [19]Method writing, [20]Personal
   Tagged [21]cats, [22]cats and corners, [23]children's story,
   [24]dreams, [25]Gabriel King, [26]language, [27]love (something like
   it) death, [28]memories, [29]nostalgia, [30]personal,
   [31]responsibility, [32]Riddles, [33]The Last Unicorn, [34]The Wild
   Road, [35]writing
   [36]1 Comment
   [37]September 25, 2014 by [38]raishimi33

[39]This writer’s life (holding a compass)

   Who am I, as a writer?
   Well, I couldn’t tell you that. I have no deep insight into anything
   beyond immediate experience – which I suppose you could say is true of
   many of us, I don’t know, I didn’t research it. I read enough to keep
   my brain fired and fried by turns, but it’s a constant process of
   catch-up, after over a decade of mental stagnation. Oh ja, I could tell
   you about the interior of various mental health institutions, and how
   it feels to see the lights of an ambulance bracket the walls, and the
   dialling-down spiral of knowing you have disappointed so many people
   who care about you, who you care for –

   But who wants to read that sort of noir life, back and forth, time and
   again?

   I could tell you about counting calories like grains of sand through
   the hourglass, and how it feels when your heels crack for pacing; what
   it means to know your grades are failing because you can’t keep up,
   juggling mental and physical duress -
   That conflict doesn’t leave in a hurry, it’s why I have trouble with
   employment -

   But again, how to spin that line to a sustainable cobweb?

   I could tell you about the different types of cat coat, the ticked and
   the spotted, the swimming breeds, the docile v.s. the gregarious. I
   could go off on one about the many cat shows attended, with the
   surprising variety of stalls showcasing craft innovation (kitty alarm
   clock, anyone?) and the cages filled with pacing, bawling, squeaking,
   hiding, wide-eye denizens of another world that we’ll never know,
   because you cannot bottle smoke. Even caught behind the bars, those
   jungle eyes found me, and I wondered who was the real prisoner.

   And I’ll tell you what colour your name is, and how to find it in a
   song; where to weave it into words that might spill over to poetic
   enjambment, a river-run of themes, time, love, relief, abandonment,
   chaotic self-delusion. Write what you know.
   Know what you write?

   So many little things, spun away into an endless world of tomorrows. So
   many signals replayed. Refrains. I often watch myself in writing and
   find a wire-grin: “She’s at it again, look – haven’t we seen that
   before?”

   My short-term memory is shot to shit. Prolonged malnutrition tends to
   inhibit cognition, even years after some semblance of mental and
   physical health have been restored. I must read and reread what I know,
   what I thought I knew, until getting into debates and conversations and
   finding myself tits-up for details … And trying to write essays and
   articles, when the facts and the words were tucked safely behind my
   ears, a tapetum lucidum for the eye, but … What did I really want to
   say? Why will it not come? What is all of this white noise?

   Somehow, the latter has grown louder of late.

   As a child, I began and finished many things with incredible speed,
   usually through a lack of consistency than any kind of real talent.
   Some skills remain – I can move with the grace of a dancer, but to go
   en pointe is a skill I shall always lack, after quitting aged nine.
   That time at least, it was not my fault; an old injury. But such things
   come back to haunt us, and I have rarely completed anything in full
   since. My parents learned quickly, not to indulge my whimsical side –
   it is prone to grabbing onto new interests, passing flights of fancy
   like the gossamer-silk of a baby spider in flight. But we all must land
   eventually. Boredom is my lesser enemy; envy is the bete noir, my main
   failing, turning kind regards to spite and a small-minded pettiness.
   But I am only stringing myself up, losing time better spent elsewhere,
   and it is (thankfully) not applicable to everyone. Only those I fear to
   lose.

   University – I quit after nine weeks. I blamed the relapse, the lack of
   coherency in the course. The truth is, I was afraid, as ever, of
   change. I bottled it, and let anorexia win, because the timetable was
   hectic and I was unable to engage in “behaviours”. So it goes that, in
   a slow process of erosion, I have tried many things over the years, and
   quit out of higher sense of duty to an illness that lives in my brain,
   subsidizing a life.

   I have lose count of the opportunities walked away from, out of fear
   and self-destruction. God knows where I might be now, with a little
   more education and ten years of living something closer to a life,
   under my well-notched belt. A continuous conflict between what I would
   like to be, and how to get there (since childhood, this certainly
   predates the illness), with a short attention span and aversion to
   rules, but a desperate desire to know the world. To read its features
   and hear its people, and to stay still long enough to show that I
   actually give a damn.

   But if I can recognize these things, why have I not made changes? Why
   continue to feed the monster?
   When does an illness become a lifestyle?

   So if you really want to know why I lack motivation and focus, why I do
   not put my (not inconsiderable) range of skills – shallow graves that
   they are – to better use, look no further than this.
   I am a Tryer, rarely a Doer. Much of what I actually manage to achieve
   is down to sheer blind luck, and the kindness of strangers.

   So, stumbling from one plus to a negative, one mood and one day to
   another year… that’s how you’ll find me, in late 2014, with as much
   focus as Pot Noodles and a chestful of hopes and a headful of fears,
   and a heart … made for lions. Because, with all of this out of the way,
   I am still proud. I danced ballet, and it welds steel to your bones,
   laces pearls into your hair.
   I do not stop trying. Not because “they” or “it” will have won, but
   because I’ve nothing better to do. Incidentally, that is what brought
   me around to recovery.
   There’s your motivational poster for the day.

   Now I guess I’d better sleep. I’m supposed to be at work in about an
   hour. Sometimes, the words won’t wait, and it’s then that I know I’m a
   writer yet. Holding a compass.
   Posted in [40]Anorexia, [41]Personal, [42]Poetry, [43]Synaesthesia
   Tagged [44]blogging, [45]cats, [46]dead flag blues, [47]depression,
   [48]memories, [49]one for sorrow, [50]personal, [51]relationships,
   [52]responsibility, [53]synaesthesia, [54]writing
   [55]4 Comments
   [56]September 23, 2014 by [57]raishimi33

[58]Dreaming of Mercy Street

   I knew where I was going, once. Had some sort of a plan, a topic, a
   novel, a vision – and a hell of a lot of rum.

   Now, I have two children who are not mine, who I adore but would like
   to press Mute on for two hours in the evening … and shifts that are
   sapping the life out of my mind. Blah fucking blah. Same old story.

   I want to get out of here. See Germany, see France, Belgium, Austria,
   mountains chained into diamond teeth, a hard blue sky and
   fierce-scented forests. I want to break out of this block that holds my
   head like a vice, out of – what – weariness? Spite at myself? Fear of
   failure?

   It’s the same song on repeat. My past never left, and hunts me still.
   At least I sleep through the night, for now. The last bout of insomnia
   was a bitch.

   Sorry, this is a protracted whinge. I can’t seem to find the words
   elsewhere. I use pictures to detail how I feel, and am more reliant on
   these than ever. It’s 8pm, and I have only just sat down.
   Where is this all going?

   To sleep, with any luck.

   Let down at work. Nothing I can go into, but suffice to say, I’m
   screaming into thin air. And getting through a lot of chewing gum.

   These words at least, come easily enough. Nowhere else to lay them out,
   to put them down. Glance over and be gone, it’s all one to me. The
   other blog post will have to wait until … some kind of coherency
   returns.

   I can’t change my style, anymore than I can change my blood type (A-)
   I still walk bare foot in the rain on sunburnt tarmac, and look for the
   last hidden corners of the library, out of the sight of teens and away
   from the burring computers that riddle up my bones with current. The
   view from that wide-eye window is magnificent; one of the last I shall
   remember. The lady cathedral in dexteree, and a sprawling canvas of
   blue-green towards the silver ocean of sky – planes from the nearby
   airport, swimming with the dreaminess of carp from one cloud to
   another.

   And to sinisteree, the flat rooftops where cats lollop and play, sprawl
   and wail, and chase with curved backs, over the baked bricks. I had a
   dream of following them, once, as a child. There was always time to
   hide in the hedges, jumping out to scare my older sister; and teaching
   my younger brother how to wait, silent and still, in the green-black
   shade of the tallest marigolds you ever saw. Three feet, those damn
   stems grew to. Only my mother could manage to tame so fierce a jungle
   in our back garden.

   Seven trees, lined up like soldiers – one beech, three larches, two
   willows, and a stately grandfather oak. It was on the latter that I
   taught my kittens how to climb – Chloe took to it readily enough,
   having less fur than her sister, Jess, to weigh down small pinion-paws.
   Poor Jessie would take a running leap, make it halfway up the trunk
   (digging into the crusty bark), before flailing back down, arse first,
   in that inconsistent way of cats. I wished for her to have Norsk
   Skaukatt in her blood, if only for the long “nose-guard” profile
   reminiscent of the Viking helm, and that singular way of descending a
   tree, head-first, in a spiral, as in the way of the Nuthatch bird.

   Certain breeds have their own peculiar traits. The Skoggy, with its
   spiral-descent; the Siberian, with its triple-layer fur, allowing it to
   become a snow-plough; the Ragdoll with its “flop”; the Siamese its
   shoulder-riding (although my Kai, a Birman, was also a fan of this);
   and my personal favourite, the Turkish Van – one of the very few
   felines who will readily approach water for a swim.

   Ja, if there’s one thing I can go off on one about, it’s cats. As a
   kid, I collected relevant books, ornaments, toys, jewellery, fiction,
   poetry – wrote some of the latter myself, where did that all go? caught
   between the pages of some ink-stained notebook, buried in a suitcase –
   and pretty much lived my life in trees, down in the long grass (running
   from spiders), in the hope that one day I would wake, and no longer be
   human.

   Still waiting.

   This staccato voice, and aversion to loud faces, and arrogant-innocent
   nature, are all born out of that child’s dream. There are some mornings
   when I wake and watch the sky, and feel so much myself again that it
   seems the world had never moved on, and I had never grown and seen the
   patterns of my mind shift, the days blur into years. I am walking the
   highways again, lost in a silver-blue mist that began around my ankles
   and stirred up to the height of the hawthorns, and there are no
   thoughts of home. Of paedophiles and murderers. Of watchful, waiting
   eyes. Of anything beyond recall.

   Just the night, and my feet at their softest, and ice-rimed leaves
   crackling still – because no human could ever learn to walk like a cat.

   Not even the Alchemist managed that.

   I should reread the Wild Road, really, and find myself again.

   [59]the wild road

   Well. That’ll do for now.
   Posted in [60]Method writing, [61]Personal
   Tagged [62]blogging, [63]brassy light, [64]cats, [65]cats and corners,
   [66]depression, [67]kittens, [68]memories, [69]method writing,
   [70]nostalgia, [71]one for sorrow, [72]personal, [73]responsibility,
   [74]The Wild Road, [75]travel, [76]writing
   [77]Leave a comment
   [78]September 21, 2014 by [79]raishimi33

[80]Wandering through Colours: Theories in Synaesthesia

   Synaesthesia is not a product of conscious thought. Though [81]it is
   possible to induce a short-term effect in the minds of test subjects,
   via hypnosis, mnemonic-training and drugs, the truth lies in the lack
   of consistency and prolonged reaction times between the [82]inducer
   (trigger) and the concurrent (synaesthetic response.) To put it another
   way, regarding the more commonly known grapheme-colour type, the
   identification of colour in a letter will differ each time, with an “a”
   seen as red in one instance, blue the next. Synaesthesia is closer to
   the involuntary actions of a cardiac muscle; we don’t tell our hearts
   to beat or blood to flow, yet these will occur even as we sleep, and we
   are aware of them through the feel of our pulse and in our conscious
   state.

   The [83]Stroop Effect is used by researchers to “see if the reactions
   within a person’s brain are consistent with those standard in a brain
   altered by synesthesia.” Typically, a longer reaction time will be seen
   in the mind of a non-synaesthete (imagine a kick as opposed to a
   blink.) The Test-Retest measures consistency between
   inducer—>concurrent: subjects are presented with a set of objects,
   flashcards bearing numbers and letters/words, or an audio programme
   without visuals, and asked to attribute these with a synaesthetic
   response of colour, shapes/patterns, textures, taste, personality
   traits, moods etc. After a set period of time, the test is reissued,
   with a synaesthete producing replicate results, [84]“as they’ve already
   made neural associations which are automatic and consistent.”

   The answer then lies not in preference, but in a reflexive response.
   It’s also true of synaesthesia that, with [85]increased awareness, its
   strength can be intensified. This was my experience last year, when I
   could finally put a name to what was causing all of the colours and
   shapes in my mind, in relation to sounds, letters, numbers and – more
   recently discovered – moods. I had experienced flecks of synaesthesia,
   in conjunction with sounds and some written words, since childhood, and
   had assumed everyone saw the world as I did. Now, it’s possible to
   distinguish one particular “mood” from another by the colour that
   defines it, like strata-nimbus layering up the sky as forewarning of
   storms, or wispy cirrus on brighter days. This is most likely through
   an increased awareness of what I’m “looking” at.

   I did at first attribute every reaction to grapheme/tonal synaesthesia,
   but this couldn’t explain how I was also able to perceive moods in
   colour, independent of text or sounds. Further research showed that an
   [86]emotion-based type does indeed exist. It’s possible for a
   synaesthete to present more than one type, often without realizing it,
   much as we experience [87]crossmodal correspondences to enhance our
   awareness of surroundings (think of a cat phlegming the air, using both
   taste and smell, as well as sight, to map out relevant features of its
   territory.)

   On top of all this are the actual means of manifestation, through
   internal or external perception. An [88]associator-synaesthete will
   find their concurrent is based in the mind, as of an awareness, like
   ink sifting through water, while a [89]projector will find synaesthesia
   in the world around them, as colours in letters or shapes moving around
   their body in connection with sound.

   For my part, synaesthesia presents itself in indistinct form behind my
   eyes – I’m an associator. A grapheme won’t be defined in clear-cut
   lines, but I am aware of its inherent colour all the same; just as I
   know that singer Cat Power has a smoky-purple voice, and the colour of
   loss is milky-violet. It is an awareness of changes in light and
   darkness, a shape seen out of the corner of the eye. A sun-dial shadow
   moving silently over the plate. A painting in Tonalism.

   [90]nocturne
   [91]James McNeill Whistler, “Nocturne – Blue and Silver – Battersea
   Reach.”

   I’m certainly no expert in neuroscience, but curiosity about the
   syndrome has led me to wander from one theoretical idea to another,
   linking proven facts relative to the brain, to what is known of
   synaesthesia through objective tests, research and subjective reports.
   Of particular interest is the chance of there being a deeper
   interaction between [92]sensory modalities for a heightened
   synaesthetic response, like weaving orchestral instruments into a
   symphony. In my experience, reading aloud from a book can stimulate
   colours in sight and hearing, as well as evoke colouration in a mood.
   Do these always stand independently of one another, or can they mingle
   to create a stronger impression?

   One theory holds that “[93]synaesthetes have unusual connections
   between different sensory regions of the cerebral cortex, perhaps
   because of a failure to prune improper, under-used or redundant
   synaptic connections during development of the nervous system.” If what
   has come before sounded like gobbledigook, this one’s a clanger. It
   basically means that, in the creation of synaesthetic brains, some
   wires were leftover between important sensory regions; this allows
   unusual crossovers to occur between sight and sound, smell and memory,
   mood and touch. The cerebral cortex is responsible for information
   processing – everything from [94]thinking, perceiving, producing and
   understanding language – and is divided into [95]lobes, each of which
   has a specific function for governing areas of response and
   interpretation. These are the important regions, while the [96]synaptic
   connections are the wires.

   [97]cerebral cortex

   This [98]rather brilliant study of emotional-synaesthesia, goes some
   way towards supporting the theory of a “candidate region… implicated in
   both emotion and memory,” playing host to my own colour-associative
   experiences of mood, and certain letters/numbers. The [99]retrosplenial
   cortex is “known to respond both to personally familiar people relative
   to unfamiliar people, and to emotional words relative to neutral words…
   Its location in the medial-posterior region of the brain also makes it
   an attractive candidate to interface with visual regions.” Which would
   explain how I am able to sense an internal response, while filtering
   out “neutral words” (and presumably sounds) with no emotional salience
   – could this be the reason that I have a strong reaction to letters “a”
   and “e”, because they happen to make up my own name – Rachael?

   A study conducted in 2010 by Romke Rouwe and H. Steven Scholte of the
   University of Amsterdam, saw the recruitment of [100]“16 projector and
   26 associator grapheme-colour synaesthetes”, who were each placed in a
   brain scanner and “shown letters and numbers to evoke synaesthetic
   experiences.” Of the structural and functional aspects tested, one
   striking difference between the brains of the two types lay in the
   volume of grey matter density of particular areas. Projectors were seen
   to have increased levels in the visual and auditory regions, the
   activation of which caused the perception of “real objects… letters and
   numbers, to evoke the vivid experience of colours in external space.”

   Associators, on the other hand, were seen to have increased grey matter
   in the hippocampus and surrounding areas known to be “critical for the
   formation of autobiographical, semantic and spatial memories.” The
   [101]hippocampus is involved in connecting “emotions and senses, such
   as smell and sound, to memories” – that’s the wonderful nostalgia found
   in the smell of frying bacon on a golden morning, or the wind-rush
   excitement that spikes up the skin, evoked by the spice of pine
   needles. The location of the hippocampus, in the temporal lobe – itself
   responsible for the [102]interpretation of sounds and language -gives a
   boost to the possibility of a crossover occurring via “unpruned”
   synaptic connections, in the brain of an Associator. Furthermore, it
   would allow for a range of synaesthetic experiences, perhaps activated
   simultaneously by the same stimuli, for that “symphonic” effect. It
   would certainly help to explain how I am able to experience writing,
   music and other inducers, on a multi-sensual level.

   It is noted in the study that this region, with its wholly internal
   perceptions, would resemble “memory retrieval”, in that letters and
   numbers would only evoke “recollections of the experience of colours,
   rather than vivid impressions of the colours themselves.” This goes
   back to the issue of recall v.s. actual sense-crossovers, and would
   lead me to question the validity of my own experiences … were it not
   for the undeniable presence of colours in relation to moods, as well as
   the additional (and consistent) features found in inducers, such as
   texture, personality traits and spatial awareness. These are all
   experienced on such a unique, nuanced and involuntary level, especially
   where there is strong emotional resonance, that I find it difficult to
   attribute each one only to memory-recall. But the study does serve to
   highlight the crucial differences in construct, for understanding how
   one synaesthetic mind will differ from another in practise. Variations
   between regions of the brain that are stimulated, will dictate whether
   an internal or external effect is produced.

   Timing will also differ between the two types, based on interference
   between actual visual perceptions, and the external synaesthetic
   responses of a projector. While a grapheme-colour associator would read
   a coloured letter and find their concurrent “in the mind’s eye”, a
   projector would take longer to identify what they are seeing in the
   external world, as evidenced in Stroop tests, when a [103]“colour word
   is printed in a colour that differs from the meaning of the word… When
   asked to name the printed colour, the discrepancy causes longer
   response times and more errors, because we can read words more quickly
   than we can name colours.”

   This is not to say that I don’t have my fair share of distractions and
   crossover-confusions. The colours of individual graphemes can be
   altered by the presence of a ‘dominant’ colour in one letter (“i” is
   white, and has a tendency to “bleach out” other letters around it; the
   word “institutionalized” appears as a blind man’s stick, tall and
   upright), while a mood-concurrent may overwhelm a song, cancelling out
   the colours inherent of vocals and music. [104]The National’s “Slipped”
   appears in the silver-lilac of an evening sky; these are the colours of
   loss and longing. No instrument stands out, and vocalist Matt
   Berninger’s chocolate-baritone is obscured in the haze.

   [105]Lake heart 1

   Some prominent grapheme-colour features:
   a = navy blue
   ae = blue-green
   c = canary yellow
   ch = canary yellow
   e = green
   h = kelly green
   i = white
   m = red
   o = ultramarine
   oo = teal / turquoise
   s = mint green, silver
   t = black
   u = yellow
   x = grey

   3 holds very favourable connections, as its turquoise appearance has a
   silky sheen reminiscent of sunlight twinkling in a thousand sparkles on
   the ocean, or a beautiful ball gown cunningly sewn through with
   glitter. It is also of moderate size, neat and compact, with positive
   traits of independence and intelligence. 6, on the other hand, is
   little and silly; light green, and quite youthful. 9 is enigmatic and
   purple, towering-tall as a solemn older lady in heels; while 7 is brown
   and cheerful. 3 also runs concurrently with the letter C, which begins
   many of my favourite words; but in this case, the colour-perception is
   far less appealing, in solid canary-yellow (think of a child’s box of
   poster paints, or a piece of plastic.) Again, this points towards a
   reflexive, rather than a preferential reaction.

   0 = no colour
   1 = red
   2 = yellow
   3 = turquoise
   4 = dark green
   5 = yellow
   6 = orange
   7 = brown
   8 = pink
   9 = purple
   10 = no colour

   The name of my friend, Carlotta, is dark blue (“o”) and pale pink
   (“a”). There is no sign of canary-yellow “c”, and “a” is normally blue
   when beginning the alphabet; it also stands at odds with her Twitter
   handle, @1chae, with the consonant diagraph “ch” appearing in yellow,
   while somehow lightening the blue-green of “ae” into turquoise.

   The presence of “name colours” has a mnemonic effect that’s handy for
   social situations – I can pin a colour/colours to people, as you would
   bookmark a page. Similarly, synaesthetes who experience sequence-space
   and colours in relation to time, are able to create an internal diary
   or an external calendar; in a projector type, the latter is known to
   appear around their bodies, with more recent dates featuring large and
   prominent, and later dates “further away”.

   “For me, the days of the week go from left to right, and the months go
   round in a wheel, with January meeting December in the bottom centre.
   Oddly, I don’t have this for numbers. So when I think “I’m meeting
   Lizzie on Thursday”, my mind jumps to a low space in front of my torso,
   towards my right. (Thursday is brown; Lizzie is blue).” – Holly
   Williams, [106]“I can smell a Rainbow.”

   [107]cartographiesoftime2
   Brainpickings, [108]“Cartographies of Time: A Visual History of the
   Timeline.”

   The texture of a letter can be altered between its written and spoken
   forms, with certain phonemes silvering-up words that would otherwise
   have a matte or solid appearance. The sibilance found in “city”,
   “cerulean” and “strata”, for example, whittles their shape down to
   something delicate, like a crystal glass or fine-link chain; at odds
   with the boldness of phoneme /k/ in “cat”, “clover” and “kill.” It’s
   for this reason that I consider words based in Old French to be of
   paler hue and lighter substance than those of Germanic origin, which
   appear more jagged.

   While a lower pitch equates a darker tone, the colour of a voice or
   instrument will not change; a swift climb up the scales produces a
   narrowed effect and lighter shade. Should one instrument take
   precedence over others, an overlay of colours may appear, as with the
   ostrich guitar in the [109]Velvet Underground’s “Venus in Furs” – those
   brass flares claw at the smoky teal background like forked lightning
   over a midnight sky. The two colours stand out, distinct from one
   another, yet the image is still wholly internal; there are no external
   projections onto the world around me.

   Timbre dictates shape, with folk singer Nick Drake’s voice appearing in
   the rounded fluidity of an oboe, rippling green as river water,
   occasionally gritty with oak bark. Canadian singer Leslie Feist appears
   in pale mint-green, woven through with striations of darker and lighter
   shades, in a texture best described as “tethered” – a matte,
   frayed-edge appearance, as of a strip of papyrus or woven cloth. A
   broader stroke (e.g. a guitar chord or throaty voice) produces a wider
   sweep of the brush in a range of shades, while a single monotonous note
   or thin/quiet voice appears in the trail of a fine-tipped watercolour
   pencil.

   As a general rule, music I would file under “wandering / nostalgic” –
   almost invariably in minor key – will appear in colours evocative of
   the bittersweet tang found in a sunset, regardless of unique
   instrumental and vocal features. Gold, brass, copper, cream, honey,
   fawn: twisted scrap metal, the jagged hues of a landlocked barge; the
   haze of an early autumn sky, the sepia tones of an old photograph.
   [110]Mogwai’s “Too Raging to Cheers” is one such song, reminscent of a
   fiery day’s end, wandering an abandoned railway line, smelling the
   thick richness of oil leaking from heat-baked sleepers, listening to
   the scrunch of gravel underfoot, the bony clatter of weeds in the wind.

   [111]abadn
   Flickr, [112]“The Disused Railways Pool.”

   [113]Kensquarrycar1-1

   When depression begins its slow creep-crawl through my head, I know of
   its presence through the gradual fading-out of all colours. While this
   can happen in connection with weariness or low blood sugar, a prolonged
   state of “pale mind” is a signal for me to look around at
   circumstances, experiences; if I’m not pushing the buck with excessive
   exercise or lack of rest, something else is at work. In similar
   fashion, a stark “whiteout” represents real fear and/or shock, caught
   in the camera flash of a moment. This reaction has been known to
   intrude on actual visual perceptions, much as someone suffering with a
   migraine would find it difficult to see properly. Other synaesthetes
   have reported similar instances of their concurrent producing a warning
   signal:

   “Since I was a child I have had vivid visual images in response to
   fearful or uncomfortable thoughts. Intense ones, that is. The
   fear-induced images take the form of highly wrinkled bluish-greenish
   paper moving around in an irregular pattern. It’s a whole landscape.
   Sometimes the images consist in large quantities of quickly presented
   irregular and wrinkled pieces of bluish-greenish cloth moving around
   very quickly. Not all of my uncomfortable or fearful thoughts are
   associated with this sort of phenomenology but the occurrence of this
   kind of phenomenology is a sure sign of uncomfortable or scary
   thoughts.” – Berit Brogaard, DMSci, PhD and Kristian Marlow, [114]“The
   Superhuman Mind: Cases of extraordinary mental ability.”

   I always know when a feral mood is coming on. It’s in the glossiness of
   a raven’s wing or a beetle’s back; the purple-blackness of a forest
   full of thorns and silent trees, all shot through with the pale claws
   of the moon that lick off dark eyes. It’s the wilder side we try to
   conceal from the grey reality of Everyday. It’s an amalgamation of
   those raw emotions that are rich as soil and hard to deny. It’s the
   source of my insomniac nights, spent wandering the orange-splintered
   lamplight haven, kicking up old leaves. It’s the hot hard feeling in
   the back of the throat, the burning eyes and iron-grin, when reading
   something that fills you with a sudden savage desire to act – to run,
   fuck, claw the walls. Sometimes it appears without any prompting at
   all. When I’m at work, it’s best to keep my head down. Left
   unfulfilled, it can fall into a nimbus-mood, which is closer to
   repressed anger and a bad mood.

   [115]beetle black

   For all of these words and theories, I still have no clear idea as to
   the origins of the synaesthesia that colours up my mind. Perhaps it’s
   better this way, wandering through the half-light, in unfinished lines
   of what-might-be. All I can be sure of is the consistency. Even when
   talking with another chromosthete (sound—>colour), I would find
   discrepancies between our reactions; particularly if they happen to be
   a projector-type, able to watch the flux-flow of colours and patterns
   externally. My internal perceptions are as much a focus of life as the
   normal five senses, and – as a writer – it’s priceless in figurative
   language. I can simulate (and stimulate) versions of what I perceive,
   through sensory crossovers that will allow a non-synaesthete to know
   how a word relative to cold may appear blue, how a situation full of
   tension can be tasted in the iron-tang air.

   I’ll cover my own influences in the next blog post.
   Posted in [116]Method writing, [117]Personal, [118]Synaesthesia
   Tagged [119]Art, [120]blogging, [121]Cerebral cortex, [122]Imagery,
   [123]love (something like it) death, [124]memories, [125]Music,
   [126]Neuroscience, [127]nostalgia, [128]personal, [129]relationships,
   [130]symbolism, [131]synaesthesia, [132]the national, [133]Tonalism,
   [134]Tonalist, [135]writing
   [136]Leave a comment
   [137]September 21, 2014 by [138]raishimi33

[139]Recolouring the mind

   This synaesthetic mind is usually sparking over with some
   colour-pattern or another, some form of mood, passing like the lowering
   nimbus that follow the spine of the Beacon; or flicker-flaring like
   shafts of golden light that dance across the wings of white gliders and
   red kites, angling over the Downs.

   When feelings are blunted, through writer’s block, depression or
   illness, the colours become muted shades. Imagine the negative of a
   photograph, and you’re close. I’ve yet to put my finger on why or how
   this happens, but am aware of it as a creeping sensation, as of
   whitewash bleeding down a wall. Clarity loses its edge; sharp lines are
   blurred into a “porthole” effect, which in its turn creates a rather
   narrowed scope of the world. Emotions follow suit (or perhaps it’s the
   emotional “whiteout” that leads), paling into a blank space that is
   neither up nor down, high nor low. Just … there.

   And not much of a “there”, either.

   I prefer to feel, even if it is a black hole of a mood. This
   nothingness is like burning the tongue, losing all sensation of texture
   and taste. Music that once lifted the hairs on my arms, now appears as
   flat colours of the mind, once so vibrant in accompaniment as they
   danced in silver-fine threads, or strident bars of mahogany, cream and
   ochre.

   (The bowed guitar of Sigur Ros’ “Rafstraumur”, is an excellent example
   of the latter.)

   I have to step away from the world for a time – at least, the sociable
   one. Cutting off all contact, speaking few words beyond politeness for
   a day or so, I follow the inevitable trail of childhood back to old
   influences. The people whose work first coloured my mind, washing it
   through with a sluice of paint; books and music, art. TV programmes.
   The sort of things that are best appreciated alone, no matter how much
   your fingers may itch to exact their details on social media, in
   imagery or images.

   Believe me, I’ve tried. It can never have the same effect. It’s like
   trying to portray the heartbeat of a Rothko painting in a postcard.
   Nothing captures that eerie sensation of life within a canvas, until
   you’ve done it yourself – stood behind the blasted rope that keeps you
   from touching eternity (maybe a saving grace after all, for such
   disappointment would live in knowing that it really is only whorls of
   hard paint), and felt the walls breathe, seen the colours ripple.

   The room goes silent and still. Your eyes slide down to the floor,
   upward and across – unable to look at the damn thing straight on,
   because it holds a gentle laugh at your own futility, mortality.

   I have a quiet grin myself, now, remembering that room. Its light made
   of living shadows, maroon and purple and black.

   The truth, I suppose, is that I need to break out more. To step away
   from these lines. It’s too easy to become embedded in daily habits, to
   lose a whole year in work, and weekends, and work again. But it seems
   that when I stop to look around, to take a breath and feel … something
   else happens. I know I’m pessimistic in this. I don’t want to become
   chipped china.

   Alice Hoffman. Truman Capote. F. Scott Fitzgerald. Jeffrey Eugenides.
   Peter .S. Beagle. Authors who hold imagery in one hand and narrative
   threads in the other, and somehow manage to weave the two into a
   sensation of near-poetic prose. I come away feeling refreshed, more
   myself. It’s where the disconnect-reconnect occurs. It is finding the
   world again, through the artistic influences that once led you to
   believe there was more to life -

   Than this solid state.

   Metaphors flourish under new light, and I take to spotting things.
   Clouds that resemble spilled cotton balls, a blue-steel lake; the way a
   skein of geese resembles a great black arrowhead. How a favourite song
   fills my mind with the milk-honey sweetness of an early autumn sky.
   (Cream and gold; you can’t tell where one ends and the other begins.)

   And the old childhood favourites, of course – Jenny Nimmo, Brian
   Jacques, Robin Jarvis, Margaret Weis, Tracy Hickman. The ones who
   taught me that nothing is beyond suspension of disbelief, so long as
   the threads are strong enough. I threw away so many stories, as a kid,
   full of anger and frustration at my own imagination. Or rather, the
   lack of force behind it, my own dull willpower. D’you know what is so
   bloody odd, so iron-tang smile now, watching the actions of Putin and
   the Kremlin in Russia? I wrote similar things while in my teens –
   younger – then binned them, because I thought no one would believe me.
   That such narratives would never make it onto a shelf, because no
   antagonist could possibly get away with cutting off a town, a country,
   isolating them in poverty and bleeding out minds with propaganda
   (though I didn’t know these terms at the time, just the basic
   concepts.) The authorities of the world – other countries – would
   surely never allow this sort of power-play to happen; it could only
   exist in the fantasy novels I was reading at the time.
   It’d never catch on. Not in the “real” world.

   Of course, what I didn’t know then was that Brian Jacques had drawn
   upon the [140]Second World War, as an influence for his Redwall saga.
   And then I took an interest in history myself, and began to read
   backwards.

   Typical, really.
   Truth -
   Fiction -
   Interchangeable.

   More to the point – why, even then, did I give so much of a damn about
   what other people thought of my mind?

   Well. That was then, this is now; and the only responsibility I will
   take from it all, is doing something about this paling mind. We govern
   our own futures.
   Which simply means following myself back home.
   Posted in [141]Method writing, [142]Personal, [143]Synaesthesia
   Tagged [144]blogging, [145]Conflict, [146]depression, [147]dreams,
   [148]lamplight haven, [149]method writing, [150]personal,
   [151]relationships, [152]synaesthesia, [153]writing
   [154]Leave a comment
   [155]September 21, 2014 by [156]raishimi33

[157]Redux

   I bore easily… And trying to manage comments on articles between three
   blogs, was a bit tricky.
   So we’re back here.
   Posted in [158]Personal
   Tagged [159]blogging, [160]wordpress
   [161]Leave a comment
   [162]August 23, 2014 by [163]raishimi33

[164]Shutter down, Shining out

   So here we are, on a day and in a time when the tears fall as rain on
   the mountains; when the sun is all the brighter in the sky, for our
   knowing it is still there. Coming in through my front door this
   evening, to the fragrant smells of wine and paella – my landlady is a
   great cook, and of the kindness that is bent around caring for others,
   so that I am always invited to join in at meals – I felt myself to be
   Home. The dog was curled up by the fire; warm smells of pine went
   trailing golden fingers through the house. Where others are not so
   fortunate, and have been hounded from the place of their birth, the
   land where ancestral bones lie deep as legends, I can claim this place
   for my sanctuary.  I know a newly-learned gratitude for all that I
   have, those seemingly small and insignificant things, as I once knew
   them after coming home from hospital. But it is too easy to forget, to
   become complacent again.

   The wind is already turning blue on my side of the world, with a
   rawness in the pale arabesque of the morning. In these tumultuous days,
   we are leased into softer eyes and gentler smiles; our sharp shining
   edges are smoothed over by empathy. Shared sorrow, frustration, anger,
   fear. Doubt. Confusion. And still, more fear, as we wonder – with each
   click and scroll – what will happen next.

   On Tuesday, 19th August, the world saw the face of its foe – what was
   revealed of it – hovering like a baleful moon above that of James
   Wright Foley, a US citizen and freelance photojournalist, captured in
   Syria in 2012. Though about to be [165]taken by that most futile act
   called murder, for an even more futile cause, James didn’t flinch or
   try to pull away. He probably knew well enough where the contents of
   that video would end up, how it would be used for propaganda, as a
   shock of reality; for the awareness of the wider world, for the threat
   of the same fate meted out to others. Still, his face remained set as
   that of a clock, dialling down on its own time.

   Perhaps the same is true for those who have watched the grim facts of
   that video in full. Perhaps they too, haven’t flinched. But, whatever
   their agenda, it cannot even begin to be measured against James’
   own strength.

   The perpetrators are more than willing to take the rest of humanity
   down with them, on their way to a faux-martyrdom. As James Kirkup of
   The Telegraph [166]rightly pointed out, to call James’ death an
   “execution” is to give it more honour than it deserves. He was
   murdered, by hands and a heart too cold to know love and respect for
   another.

   Walking home tonight, I found myself mulling over this, and other
   things that have come to pass. The blue-black cloud of inertia that had
   filled me up like ink sifting through water, slowly slipped away. In
   its place wove a silver thread of desperate hope, twined about with the
   pale green of worry … a thin petrol-rainbow of fear.

   Passing through our local Muslim community, I found myself faced with
   the troubled faces and downcast eyes that are sadly reminiscent of
   other times. Such fear is palpable, like the wavering heat rising from
   a radiator. 9/11. 7/7. 22/5. Numbers that would be meaningless, without
   the context of death and tragedy, of atrocities carried out in the name
   of Islam; when it is the innocent followers of that faith who must bear
   the fallout. As though they had any part in it at all.

   [167]“We do not tolerate it, we forbid ISIS in Indonesia… This is a new
   wake-up call to international leaders all over the world, including
   Islamic leaders… [to] review how to combat extremism. Changing
   paradigms on both sides are needed – how the West perceives Islam and
   how Islam perceives the West.” – Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, president of
   Indonesia.

   I remember the face of my friend, who once walked the beat as a
   hate-crime officer, giving a sympathetic ear and trustworthy pledge of
   hope to those he served in the Muslim community; and his words, full of
   sadness, telling me of the young sons and daughters taken by shadows of
   fear; the mothers and fathers left behind, bewildered and terrified for
   their children. For each other.

   I read the [168]latest blog entry of my dear friend Nillu, who is a
   Shia Ismaili Muslim, and the fear becomes personal; it becomes a pale
   rim around my vision, half-thinking about what is best left unsaid,
   unknown. The future is what happens when it arrives, not what we try to
   foresee. She is Nillu, one of the loveliest and most empathetic women I
   have ever known, and the thought that anyone might think negative
   thoughts of her, based upon her religion, burns out my mind. She is the
   peace of her faith, personified.

   I recall how on Monday, when our worlds met at the borderline of
   thought and dream, I had told my other beloved friend Amira that, while
   the little things matter in this life, the finer details, we cannot
   escape the Here and Now, how this affects us. When we hit those patches
   of black ice, nothing is so very important than to get the words down
   before the usual inertia of getting-by steers us back towards
   equilibrium. How else would we know, how else would we remember what
   had hit us hard? (Sometimes, it really is a case of diving into the
   nearest cafe or stairwell, to record a piece of existence that would
   otherwise go unnoticed, dropped like a coin into a well; a brief
   glitter, then blackness.)

   To which she agreed, as ever she would, for we are alike as twins in
   mindset.  Her [169]own blog entry wrapped itself about the anger and
   fear felt for Ferguson, a suburb in her hometown of  St Louis. While
   the [170]tension has since begun to unwind, Amira’s entry – posted  in
   lieu of a literary article about fiction and publishing – told its own
   story of the immediacy of that situation, how it caught and affected
   her.

   “Screw that blog post I wrote about literature and fiction – it can
   wait. There are more important things at stake right now.”

   And yet, for all this – for all my waffle and whimsy in attempting to
   make sense of what I and others have witnessed, day by day, on rolling
   news feeds and carefully edited images – from the scene of James
   Foley’s last moments, and the [171]ongoing conflict in Eastern Ukraine
   – I find myself, at the end of this day, so full of dark thoughts … and
   somehow still willing to get up and try again. For a smile and a
   prayer, at least.

   Entering the cathedral for a walk between those dark-wood polished
   pews, drifting with the dust motes that are like so many silver sparks,
   I spoke aloud the words and cried the tears held back all day. I
   commended his memory to whoever might have been listening, anyone or no
   one. I have no particular faith. I just walk where there is peace to be
   found, between cool marble columns etched over with long-ago dates and
   names, upon rainbow-glitter sprays flung from the stained glass
   windows.

   [172]cathedral girl

   James, I didn’t know you, or your family. But you symbolized what I
   want to be, what I want to achieve, and it’s for this reason that I
   take [173]your words to heart, more than most.
   You had your romantic ideals discoloured by reality, and still carried
   on. For that, no act of inhumanity can diminish your memory.

   Following an unpleasant encounter with an unedited photograph taken
   from a jihadist Twitter account – tossed about with the carelessness of
   a tennis ball, among people who ought to have known better than to give
   the perpetrators the notoriety they seek – I decided to find out more
   about graphic content, its origins and uses. The principle focus was on
   how this type of media fits into the growing scope of social
   networking, as an instantaneous publisher. With the rise of portable
   technology, we have nothing to fear in terms of missing a moment in the
   world. What we have to fear instead, is the decrease in ethical
   judgement when it comes to sharing what we have found – live, unedited,
   raw footage, often taken from conflict zones and scenes of tragic
   events, passed about to … what? Inspire retaliation? Instil dread? The
   lines grow blurred. What is useful propaganda to one party, is
   click-bait to another; and to still others, it is a symbolic
   vocalization of what cannot be described in words. Though I do wish
   more people would try. For that matter, [174]Twitter has at least
   started cracking down on graphic content, and is [175]actively
   suspending accounts which would use it for propaganda and intimidation.

   For all that I am a writer, with words supposedly my weapons (and you
   would think, some kind of clarity), metaphors and symbolism are all too
   often my fall-back. Such is the delight of Twitter, with its reams of
   information-imagery and algorithms, that I am never short of those
   stars for a constellation of emotional expression. A picture can sum up
   far more than I could put into words. That being said, I pull up short
   before pressing any buttons on the sort of content that has become an
   unpleasant side effect of following certain topics, in order to learn
   more. I’ll confess now, my fingers have itched. Some images have sent
   my mind down into a blankness that only long hours of walking, and
   missing a meal – startling my body awake with hunger – could shred. For
   long moments, I pause, wanting to show those who follow me – “Look.
   Look at this. Look at what these people who are not people, have done
   to this woman, this man, this child. Did you ever think that blood
   could run so thickly, that it turns black?”

   But no. Because why should I be so selfish as to pretend there isn’t a
   sneaking voyeuristic pleasure-horror to be gained out of seeing others’
   reactions? Or is it that I want to stand a mirror up between us to find
   the same emotions, the same words, to know that what I have seen is
   real, and not the darkest nightmare?

   Oh, I still long to show you all, to make you understand how terrible
   the suffering was of those people … But I don’t know it myself, because
   I wasn’t there, and I didn’t experience it. I know nothing of the
   situation, but what I’ve seen from a tiny set of pixels in a frame,
   holding the last image of a person who was alive and breathing once,
   beloved, longed for, educated, born. That picture, that video, is but a
   fragment of who they were. Whatever the perpetrators of their death
   thought to gain in taking that last image, or allowing it to be taken,
   to be passed around on social networking sites, they can’t diminish
   these facts.

   So why, then, should I have been so upset to see that image – the first
   piece of graphic media I had come across on Twitter – treated the way
   that it was, transferred from one user to another, to illustrate the
   point of the murderer’s violence?
   Ah, there’s the paradox. I guess I would call it “dignity in death.”

   [176]This article from the Guardian, summed up what I have been trying
   to spit out for weeks about the perks and perils of sharing graphic
   content on social networking sites. Blogs such as [177]this one,
   written by BBC journalist Alex Murray, and [178]this on The
   Conversation, have helped me to see both sides of the flipped coin.
   Because I want to know how it feels to face that kind of reality, when
   it’s all caught in pixels on a screen in the newsroom, with only a hand
   to reach out and no way of changing the ending. I want to know, so I
   can better understand it.

   [179]“Whether or not a news organisation is right to use graphic
   material is a matter of opinion. But what this article has hopefully
   illustrated is that in certain cases the decisions to print or
   broadcast are taken with care and with a genuine desire to ‘do the
   right thing’. The mainstream media, if we can speak so generally, has
   its multitude of failings. But let’s not forget that when dealing with
   upsetting and harrowing imagery, journalists do not exist in a vacuum,
   unencumbered by the moral uncertainties that we all face.”
   – John Jewell,
   Director of Undergraduate Studies, School of Journalism, Media and
   Cultural Studies at Cardiff University.

   We are all beholden to each other’s goodwill and ethical standards, on
   social networking sites – it’s a push-pull system of give and take.
   Each of us have a duty of care to our friends and followers, who come
   from diverse socio-cultural and religious backgrounds. In cyberspace,
   after all, there are fewer limitations on what can be seen; it is
   difficult to erase certain things from under the eyelids.
   And we are not even on the ground as witnesses, feeling the whump of
   explosives and feeling the sting of heat, or handling raw footage for
   editing.

   “That much of this material is shot point of view and handheld does
   have an impact. When this sort of video is edited, it’s pretty easy to
   treat it simply as ‘material’. When it is a single continuous shot,
   there is something about its unified perspective – as the point of view
   of a real person, not of a piece of a broadcast – that can be difficult
   to cope with.

   This isn’t journalists trying to sort facts and report ‘the story’,
   this is people showing you what they are experiencing, as if to say:
   ‘I don’t understand why this is happening. Why are they doing this to
   us? If I show you, then perhaps someone will explain what is going
   on.'” – Alex Murray, [180]“The Hazards of war reporting from the other
   side of the world.”

   While graphic media, submitted by citizens as [181]user-generated
   content, can be used to raise awareness – drawing in a wider audience
   to the [182]fracture-lines appearing in our world, and bringing to bear
   the reality of life under conflict – it is also known for its white-out
   effect of desensitization. There is the Long Blink of ignorance left in
   bliss – which none of us has the right to deny another, for our
   individual worlds are populated by enough troubles – or the
   self-propagating cycle of seeking out yet stronger content, more brutal
   scenes, to achieve the same effect. Then there is the consideration of
   safety for those with the means to produce such content.

   “The temptation is to be out at the very front with them – where the
   fighting is more dramatic, more filmic. Front-line reporting –
   capturing and communicating the essence of war – is always a gamble,
   but one where we think we can set the odds… The further forward you go,
   the more powerful the pictures, but the greater the chances of being
   killed or injured. Our flak jackets and helmets are far from
   invincible. As a cub reporter I was always told never to become the
   story.” – Alastair Leithead, [183]“Hazards of war reporting from the
   Libyan front line.”

   “Journalists now constantly have to make difficult decisions about
   protecting the safety of people caught up in these events… But being
   aware of the need to do this doesn’t always come naturally if you’re
   not used to reporting wars from the newsroom.
   What about the monitoring of phone calls or even email traffic?
   What language can be used to identify yourself without endangering the
   contributor?
   How do we introduce ourselves?
   Is Gmail safer than Hotmail?” – Matthew Eltringham, Editor of the BBC
   College of Journalism website; [184]“The new frontline is inside the
   newsroom.”

   James Foley had the backing of the GlobalPost, based in Boston, but
   took no fewer risks than his peers. His death brings up again what
   freelance journalists face when reporting from warzones, [185]“lightly
   resourced, laughably paid, almost wholly uninsured… often armed with
   little more than a notebook and a mobile phone.” There has been
   particular focus on Syria, where James was taken, which has been
   labelled [186]“the most dangerous country in the world for journalists”
   to work in, by The Committee to Protect Journalists.

   “[187]At least 69 other journalists have been killed covering the
   conflict there, including some who died over the border in Lebanon and
   Turkey. More than 80 journalists have been kidnapped in Syria; with
   frequent abductions, some of which go unpublicized, it is difficult to
   know exactly how many. CPJ estimates that approximately 20 journalists,
   both local and international, are currently missing in Syria. Many of
   them are believed to be held by Islamic State.”

   I still have a petrol-rainbow trickle of an idea about what I would
   like to do in the near future. There are big decisions to be made. But
   more and more, with each turning leaf and golden bar of sunlight
   turning to brass, with each red-rim eye of a news story, I find my
   thoughts turning to my family. I see the bravery of the Foleys – read
   his[188] mother’s words – and must now think on such things as
   consequences. For all that I have no further responsibilities or ties,
   other than my current job, there are still those left behind to
   consider.

   There is only so much the human mind can take, before it must shutter
   down and shine out. I end my days now, after online research,by turning
   my phone off and sticking my head into an Alice Hoffman book. It’s
   this, or break under the heavy iron band stretched over my skull,
   leaving its tang in my throat, a soreness around my eyes.

   There are always those sparks of drifting dust – our histories, our
   lives – to call us back. The beautiful smile of a friend, tweeting a
   picture of herself with family; the unique charm of a compliment for a
   posted story. The fluffed fur of a kitten with ocean eyes, caught in a
   noir photo; the lingering words of one who lies on the peripheral line
   where the sky meets the sea. The pleasant swatch of colours found in a
   tweet describing the morning-sounds of birds on the feeder, and bacon
   on the stove.

   For all that the blood is a book, to be read over and again in the
   hopes of learning from our pasts … we live for the future, and it is
   Now. So while sharing the seemingly mundane, the cheerful, the
   cherished, we take our stand against those who would spread only
   darkness. When we speak of the dead, those taken from us in the most
   diabolical ways, let it be with images of who they really were – the
   people who lived, worked, spoke and fought for freedom, ours and
   theirs; for knowledge, for one more assignment, for one more day. In
   using hashtags like #ISISmediablackout and #StopPutin, we set our faces
   to the changing winds of tomorrow – denying the murderers and the liars
   the voices that would continue the fear and oppression – while
   remembering that today is for Us, and the memories of those who are
   gone.

   It’s only when we stem the creativity, the playful tweets, the Good
   Mornings, the most wire-grin banter, that the perpetrators of that
   insidious fear have won.

   Well, that’s me done. Hope I haven’t inadvertently offended anyone or
   left something important out; if I have, drop me a line and I’ll
   apologise. Otherwise, it’s

   Guten nacht

   from me.

   If you want to continue following my work, I’m at
   [189]https://lamplighthaven.wordpress.com now. Ta.
   Posted in [190]EU-Europe, [191]Personal
   Tagged [192]blogging, [193]brassy light, [194]Conflict, [195]dead flag
   blues, [196]dreams, [197]graphic content, [198]journalism,
   [199]lamplight haven, [200]middle east, [201]one for sorrow,
   [202]petrol rainbows, [203]responsibility, [204]Russia, [205]travel,
   [206]Ukraine, [207]writing
   [208]1 Comment

Post navigation

   [209]← Older posts
   raishimi33

[210]raishimi33

   Freelance writer: articles on linguistics and eating disorders. Former
   Film Studies student. NES button masher, country walker. Loves cats and
   sushi. Interests include meteorology, criminology, UK/European
   politics, the EU, and archaic weaponry. Contact at
   Celenagaia33@gmail.com

   [211]View Full Profile →

Compartmentalizing our Lives

   [Select Category_____]

About a Girl

   [Select Month_______]

Tags

   [212]anorexia [213]blogging [214]blue rose [215]brassy light [216]cats
   [217]cats and corners [218]children's story [219]Conflict [220]Crimea
   [221]dead flag blues [222]depression [223]dreams [224]emily haines
   [225]eviction [226]eyrie heart [227]fever ray [228]Films [229]If...
   [230]kittens [231]lamplight haven [232]language [233]last shadow
   puppets [234]Lindsay Anderson [235]london [236]love (something like it)
   death [237]memories [238]method writing [239]Music [240]new year
   [241]noir [242]nostalgia [243]one for sorrow [244]personal [245]petrol
   rainbows [246]poetry [247]Public protests [248]relationships
   [249]responsibility [250]Russia [251]symbolism [252]synaesthesia
   [253]the falconer [254]the national [255]the novel [256]The Wild Road
   [257]toxic beauty [258]travel [259]twitter [260]Ukraine [261]writing

Fictional Writing, Articles and Introductions

     * [262]2013: Rain is Coming
     * [263]Article: Seeing Stars
     * [264]Introducing…
          + [265]Letter to a Sixteen year old Self
     * [266]Moonlight and Sunlight
     * [267]POV: Sparks
     * [268]Short Fiction: Between Blue Roses (Silence of Snow)
     * [269]Synaesthesia Magazine: Author Interview and Articles

   [270]Follow Raishimi33 on WordPress.com

Follow Blog via Email

   Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications
   of new posts by email.

   ____________________

   Follow
   [271]wordpress visitor counter
   [272]Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com. | [273]The Dusk To
   Dawn Theme.

   [274]Raishimi33
   [275]Blog at WordPress.com. [276]The Dusk To Dawn Theme.

   [277]Follow

Follow “Raishimi33”

   Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

   Join 1,094 other followers

   Enter your email add

   Sign me up
   [278]Powered by WordPress.com


   Add your thoughts here... (optional)________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   Post to
   [279]Cancel Reblog Post

References

   1. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/feed/
   2. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/comments/feed/
   3. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/osd.xml
   4. http://wordpress.com/opensearch.xml
   5. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/
   6. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/28/riddle-speak/
   7. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/author/raishimi33/
   8. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/28/riddle-speak/
   9. https://raishimi33.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/sobek-horus.jpg
  10. http://www.123rf.com/
  11. http://www.ancientegypt.co.uk/gods/explore/horus.html
  12. http://www.ancientegypt.co.uk/gods/explore/sobek.html
  13. http://www.ancientegypt.co.uk/gods/explore/bastet.html
  14. http://www.ancientegyptonline.co.uk/bast.html
  15. http://www.goddess-guide.com/bast.html
  16. http://consciouscompanion2012.com/2013/06/03/crepuscular-cats/
  17. https://raishimi33.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/firefly-glow.jpg
  18. http://www.randomhouse.com/features/wildroad/index.html
  19. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/method-writing/
  20. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/personal/
  21. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/cats/
  22. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/cats-and-corners/
  23. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/childrens-story/
  24. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/dreams/
  25. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/gabriel-king/
  26. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/language/
  27. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/love-something-like-it-death/
  28. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/memories/
  29. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/nostalgia/
  30. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/personal-2/
  31. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/responsibility/
  32. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/riddles/
  33. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/the-last-unicorn/
  34. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/the-wild-road/
  35. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/writing/
  36. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/28/riddle-speak/#comments
  37. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/25/this-writers-life-holding-a-compass/
  38. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/author/raishimi33/
  39. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/25/this-writers-life-holding-a-compass/
  40. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/anorexia-2/
  41. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/personal/
  42. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/poetry/
  43. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/synaesthesia-2/
  44. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/blogging/
  45. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/cats/
  46. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/dead-flag-blues/
  47. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/depression/
  48. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/memories/
  49. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/one-for-sorrow/
  50. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/personal-2/
  51. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/relationships/
  52. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/responsibility/
  53. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/synaesthesia/
  54. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/writing/
  55. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/25/this-writers-life-holding-a-compass/#comments
  56. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/23/dreaming-of-mercy-street/
  57. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/author/raishimi33/
  58. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/23/dreaming-of-mercy-street/
  59. http://raishimi33.files.wordpress.com/2014/03/the-wild-road.jpg
  60. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/method-writing/
  61. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/personal/
  62. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/blogging/
  63. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/brassy-light/
  64. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/cats/
  65. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/cats-and-corners/
  66. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/depression/
  67. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/kittens/
  68. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/memories/
  69. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/method-writing-2/
  70. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/nostalgia/
  71. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/one-for-sorrow/
  72. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/personal-2/
  73. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/responsibility/
  74. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/the-wild-road/
  75. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/travel/
  76. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/writing/
  77. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/23/dreaming-of-mercy-street/#respond
  78. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/wandering-through-colours-theories-in-synaesthesia/
  79. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/author/raishimi33/
  80. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/wandering-through-colours-theories-in-synaesthesia/
  81. http://www.psypost.org/2014/07/inducing-synaesthesia-can-learn-taste-smell-letter-b-26185
  82. http://quizlet.com/3180574/synesthesia-flash-cards/
  83. http://www.synesthesiatest.org/blog/synesthesia-test-variations
  84. http://www.synesthesiatest.org/blog/synesthesia-test-variations
  85. http://synaesthesia.com/en/workshop/syn-bewusstsein/
  86. http://crackingtheenigma.blogspot.co.uk/2011/11/case-of-colour-emotion-synaesthesia.html
  87. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21264748
  88. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15535169
  89. http://scienceblogs.com/neurophilosophy/2010/05/07/different-types-of-synaesthetic-experiences-involve-different-brain-mechanisms/
  90. https://lamplighthaven.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/nocturne.jpg
  91. http://www.metmuseum.org/toah/hd/whis/hd_whis.htm
  92. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stimulus_modality
  93. http://neurophilosophy.wordpress.com/2007/05/29/imaging-of-connectivity-in-the-synaesthetic-brain/
  94. http://biology.about.com/od/anatomy/a/aa032505a.htm
  95. http://psychology.about.com/od/biopsychology/ss/brainstructure_2.htm
  96. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synapse
  97. https://lamplighthaven.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/cerebral-cortex.jpg
  98. http://www.synesthesia.info/Ward-04.pdf
  99. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19812579
 100. http://scienceblogs.com/neurophilosophy/2010/05/07/different-types-of-synaesthetic-experiences-involve-different-brain-mechanisms/
 101. http://biology.about.com/od/anatomy/p/hippocampus.htm
 102. http://psychology.about.com/od/biopsychology/ss/brainstructure_2.htm
 103. http://scienceblogs.com/neurophilosophy/2010/05/07/different-types-of-synaesthetic-experiences-involve-different-brain-mechanisms/
 104. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fRyHDBWKLzI
 105. http://lamplighthaven.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/lake-heart-1.jpg
 106. http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/features/inside-the-sensual-world-of-the-synaesthetes-i-can-smell-a-rainbow-9624183.html
 107. https://lamplighthaven.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/cartographiesoftime2.jpg
 108. http://www.brainpickings.org/2012/02/07/cartographies-of-time/?utm_content=buffer4596f&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer
 109. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AwzaifhSw2c
 110. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NhL8OMursQM
 111. https://lamplighthaven.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/abadn.jpg
 112. https://www.flickr.com/groups/disused_railways/pool/with/2285527074/lightbox/
 113. https://lamplighthaven.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/kensquarrycar1-1.jpg
 114. http://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-superhuman-mind/201212/mixing-the-senses-green-3s-purple-pain-and-blue-fear
 115. https://lamplighthaven.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/beetle-black.jpg
 116. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/method-writing/
 117. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/personal/
 118. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/synaesthesia-2/
 119. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/art/
 120. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/blogging/
 121. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/cerebral-cortex/
 122. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/imagery/
 123. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/love-something-like-it-death/
 124. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/memories/
 125. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/music/
 126. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/neuroscience/
 127. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/nostalgia/
 128. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/personal-2/
 129. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/relationships/
 130. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/symbolism/
 131. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/synaesthesia/
 132. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/the-national/
 133. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/tonalism/
 134. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/tonalist/
 135. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/writing/
 136. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/wandering-through-colours-theories-in-synaesthesia/#respond
 137. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/recolouring-the-mind/
 138. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/author/raishimi33/
 139. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/recolouring-the-mind/
 140. http://www.redwall.org/ideas.html
 141. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/method-writing/
 142. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/personal/
 143. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/synaesthesia-2/
 144. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/blogging/
 145. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/conflict/
 146. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/depression/
 147. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/dreams/
 148. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/lamplight-haven/
 149. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/method-writing-2/
 150. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/personal-2/
 151. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/relationships/
 152. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/synaesthesia/
 153. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/writing/
 154. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/recolouring-the-mind/#respond
 155. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/redux/
 156. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/author/raishimi33/
 157. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/redux/
 158. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/personal/
 159. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/blogging/
 160. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/wordpress/
 161. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/09/21/redux/#respond
 162. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/08/23/shutter-down-shining-out/
 163. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/author/raishimi33/
 164. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/08/23/shutter-down-shining-out/
 165. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/iraq/11044977/Hunt-for-British-Islamic-State-killer-of-US-journalist-James-Foley.html
 166. http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/jameskirkup/100283539/dont-dignify-james-foleys-murder-by-calling-it-an-execution/
 167. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/indonesia/11047487/Indonesia-president-says-Islamic-State-embarrassing-Muslims.html
 168. http://nillunasserstelter.com/2014/08/19/violence-and-complicity/
 169. http://artz3.wordpress.com/2014/08/18/standwithferguson/
 170. http://www.voanews.com/content/orderly-protests-continue-in-ferguson-as-troops-leave/2424366.html
 171. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/4426dc70-29de-11e4-914f-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3B9F0OCun
 172. https://lamplighthaven.files.wordpress.com/2014/08/cathedral-girl.jpg
 173. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/iraq/11045174/Its-not-worth-your-life-James-Foleys-warning-to-future-journalists.html
 174. http://news.sky.com/story/1321744/twitter-to-remove-gory-photos-of-death
 175. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/11039900/Twitter-suspends-Islamic-State-accounts.html
 176. http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/aug/20/james-foley-daily-horrors-internet-think-clicking-beheading?CMP=twt_gu
 177. http://www.leguape.com/journalism/the-hazards-of-war-reporting-from-the-other-side-of-the-world
 178. https://theconversation.com/dealing-with-graphic-content-is-a-moral-minefield-for-journalists-30383
 179. https://theconversation.com/dealing-with-graphic-content-is-a-moral-minefield-for-journalists-30383
 180. http://www.leguape.com/journalism/the-hazards-of-war-reporting-from-the-other-side-of-the-world
 181. http://www.bbc.co.uk/terms/faq.shtml
 182. http://m.ceip.org/publications/?fa=56392
 183. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-15007787
 184. http://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/blogcollegeofjournalism/posts/The-new-frontline-is-inside-the-newsroom2
 185. http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2014/08/20/how-journalists-like-james-foley-fall-victim-to-worlds-most-dangerous-conflict-to-report/
 186. http://www.cpj.org/2014/08/cpj-condemns-killing-of-american-journalist-james-.php
 187. http://www.cpj.org/2014/08/cpj-condemns-killing-of-american-journalist-james-.php
 188. http://gawker.com/james-foleys-mother-speaks-out-we-have-never-been-pro-1624251219
 189. https://lamplighthaven.wordpress.com/
 190. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/eu-europe/
 191. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/category/personal/
 192. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/blogging/
 193. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/brassy-light/
 194. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/conflict/
 195. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/dead-flag-blues/
 196. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/dreams/
 197. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/graphic-content/
 198. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/journalism/
 199. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/lamplight-haven/
 200. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/middle-east/
 201. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/one-for-sorrow/
 202. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/petrol-rainbows/
 203. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/responsibility/
 204. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/russia/
 205. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/travel/
 206. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/ukraine/
 207. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/writing/
 208. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2014/08/23/shutter-down-shining-out/#comments
 209. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/page/2/
 210. http://gravatar.com/raishimi33
 211. http://gravatar.com/raishimi33
 212. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/anorexia/
 213. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/blogging/
 214. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/blue-rose/
 215. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/brassy-light/
 216. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/cats/
 217. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/cats-and-corners/
 218. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/childrens-story/
 219. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/conflict/
 220. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/crimea/
 221. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/dead-flag-blues/
 222. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/depression/
 223. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/dreams/
 224. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/emily-haines/
 225. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/eviction/
 226. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/eyrie-heart/
 227. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/fever-ray/
 228. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/films/
 229. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/if/
 230. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/kittens/
 231. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/lamplight-haven/
 232. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/language/
 233. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/last-shadow-puppets/
 234. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/lindsay-anderson/
 235. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/london/
 236. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/love-something-like-it-death/
 237. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/memories/
 238. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/method-writing-2/
 239. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/music/
 240. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/new-year/
 241. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/noir/
 242. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/nostalgia/
 243. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/one-for-sorrow/
 244. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/personal-2/
 245. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/petrol-rainbows/
 246. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/poetry-2/
 247. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/public-protests/
 248. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/relationships/
 249. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/responsibility/
 250. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/russia/
 251. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/symbolism/
 252. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/synaesthesia/
 253. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/the-falconer/
 254. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/the-national/
 255. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/the-novel/
 256. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/the-wild-road/
 257. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/toxic-beauty/
 258. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/travel/
 259. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/twitter/
 260. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/ukraine/
 261. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/tag/writing/
 262. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/2013-rain-is-coming/
 263. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/seeing-stars/
 264. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/introducing/
 265. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/introducing/letter-to-a-sixteen-year-old-self/
 266. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/moonlight-and-sunlight/
 267. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/sparks/
 268. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/between-blue-roses-silence-of-snow/
 269. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/synaesthesia-magazine-author-interview-and-articles/
 270. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/
 271. http://statcounter.com/wordpress.com/
 272. https://wordpress.com/?ref=footer_website
 273. https://wordpress.com/themes/dusk-to-dawn/
 274. http://raishimi33.wordpress.com/
 275. https://wordpress.com/?ref=footer_blog
 276. https://wordpress.com/themes/dusk-to-dawn/
 277. javascript:void(0)
 278. https://wordpress.com/?ref=lof
 279. file:///home/bbokka/cs594/Assignment/programs/html_content/b511725a8691fa72c05d152f65328a36.htm
